b'SOMEBODY had to write this, and it might as well be me. I haven\'t seen "Brokeback Mountain," nor do I have any intention of seeing it. In fact, cowboys would have to lasso me, drag me into the theater and tie me to the seat, and even then I would make every effort to close my eyes and cover my ears.'b"And I love gay people. Hey, I've got gay acquaintances. Good acquaintances, who know they can call me anytime if they had my phone number. I'm for gay marriage, gay divorce, gay this and gay that. I just don't want to watch two straight men, alone on the prairie, fall in love and kiss and hug and hold hands and whatnot. That's all."b"Is that so terrible? Does that mean I'm homophobic? And if I am, well, then that's too bad. Because you can call me any name you want, but I'm still not going to that movie."b'To my surprise, I have some straight friends who\'ve not only seen the movie but liked it. "One of the best love stories ever," one gushed. Another went on, "Oh, my God, you completely forget that it\'s two men. You in particular will love it."'b'"Why me?"'b'"You just will, trust me."'b"But I don't trust him. If two cowboys, male icons who are 100 percent all-man, can succumb, what chance to do I have, half- to a quarter of a man, depending on whom I'm with at the time? I'm a very susceptible person, easily influenced, a natural-born follower with no sales-resistance. When I walk into a store, clerks wrestle one another trying to get to me first. My wife won't let me watch infomercials because of all the junk I've ordered that's now piled up in the garage. My medicine cabinet is filled with vitamins and bald cures."b"So who's to say I won't become enamored with the whole gay business? Let's face it, there is some appeal there. I know I've always gotten along great with men. I never once paced in my room rehearsing what to say before asking a guy if he wanted to go to the movies. And I generally don't pay for men, which of course is their most appealing attribute."b"And gay guys always seem like they're having a great time. At the Christmas party I went to, they were the only ones who sang. Boy that looked like fun. I would love to sing, but this weighty, self-conscious heterosexuality I'm saddled with won't permit it."b'I just know if I saw that movie, the voice inside my head that delights in torturing me would have a field day. "You like those cowboys, don\'t you? They\'re kind of cute. Go ahead, admit it, they\'re cute. You can\'t fool me, gay man. Go ahead, stop fighting it. You\'re gay! You\'re gay!"'b"Not that there's anything wrong with it."b'Op-Ed Contributor Larry David appears in the HBO series "Curb Your Enthusiasm."'b"Poughkeepsie, N.Y. - I'VE never been big on New Year's resolutions, but here is one worth considering: starting in 2006, let's all think of the things that unite us as Hudson Valley residents, rather than what divides us, like county lines. The Hudson Valley -- which includes Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Rockland and Westchester Counties, among others -- has emerged as a distinct region, with an identity that warrants our acknowledgment, indeed our pride."b"The valley and its storied river have received virtually every federal and state accolade available for regions and water bodies of national significance. For instance, Congress has designated the Hudson River Valley a National Heritage Area. President Bill Clinton declared the Hudson an American Heritage River. The United States Environmental Protection Agency has designated the river, whose salty waters flow both ways, an Estuary of National Significance. And last year First Lady Laura Bush designated historic landmarks in Putnam and Dutchess Counties as Preserve America sites. These titles are not merely ceremonial; they bring local, regional and national advocates for the environment, culture and heritage of the Hudson Valley together to work for its preservation and enhancement as the foundation of the area's economy."b"These titles also honor the important role the Hudson Valley and its people have played during critical epochs in our nation's history. Pivotal battles of the American Revolution were fought here. The 19th-century Hudson River School painters captured on canvas the area's inspiring, even mystical beauty and defined the American landscape for people all over the world. President Franklin D. Roosevelt was born in Hyde Park in Dutchess County and often resided there during his presidency, inspiring the country to live without fear through the Great Depression and World War II. And the modern environmental movement traces its origins to a 17-year battle to save a mountain named Storm King in Orange County from a power plant."b"Just three years from now New York will celebrate the 400th anniversary of Henry Hudson's legendary sail into what we now know as New York harbor and up the river that bears his name. Gov. George Pataki and the State Legislature have created a commission to plan the celebration."b"Governor Pataki has pledged to protect 1 million acres of new open space statewide before he leaves office a year from now and to take steps that will ensure that the entire Hudson north of New York Harbor is clean enough for swimming by 2009, to coincide with the Henry Hudson anniversary. Environmental groups are ready to work with him and the Legislature to ensure that New York State's dedicated environmental trust fund has the resources needed to achieve these and other important goals."b'But additional money and authority are also needed to ensure that a new wave of residential development sweeping up the river protects, rather than damages, the river and its waterfront as a public and natural resource. On a parallel track, organizations like mine are working with other environmental groups -- with help from Representative Maurice Hinchey and New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer -- to rid the Hudson River of toxic sediments.'b"So what can we do to help as individuals? We can start by making sure our children know about the area's important place in American history and about their role as stewards of this extraordinary natural resource. Residents of towns along the river can find out what kind of development is proposed for their waterfronts and help shape the projects put forward by developers so they benefit all members of the community."b'Even this newspaper could help. By simply changing the name of its Sunday Westchester section to the Hudson Valley section, the paper would herald a new era in regional awareness and catch up with the broad geographic coverage of its editorials and news stories.'b"So next time you are away from home and someone asks you where you're from, tell them you live in the Hudson Valley. And let's be sure we work together between now and the 400th anniversary to make the region a world-class model of economic and environmental vitality worthy of its history and future as the landscape that defined America."b'Op-Ed Contributor Ned Sullivan is president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental organization.'b"It would be hard for us to say whether Westchester's county legislators deserve the hefty pay raises they were trying to slide quietly past the voters in recent days. Making such a judgment requires a difficult consideration of many complicated factors."b"You'd have to weigh how much they make against how much they do. You'd want to compare what other people make in jobs requiring similar levels of effort and brain power and figure out whether the drain on the county treasury would be offset by greater productivity and even more dazzling lawmaking from 17 newly energized, no-longer-aggrieved public servants."b"But even though making such a finely calibrated judgment is probably beyond our expertise, let's do it anyway. Everyone else has."b'Do they deserve those raises? Heck no.'b'If the board backed away from the money grab late last week in a vote that was scheduled for Friday, after this page went to press, then let this editorial stand as muted praise for doing the right thing (read on for a discussion of the "muted" part).'b'But if the board, as many expected, voted for the raises, then we stand by our opposition: Heck no.'b"Heck no because of the way the maneuver was plotted -- snuck in for a vote between Election Day and New Year's, with no discussion during the campaign season and precious little afterward."b'Heck no because of its disproportionate size: The proposed raises had been much bigger at first, but after harsh criticism they were scaled back -- to 15 percent. The base salary for legislators would climb to $49,000 from $43,000, with more money to be had in stipends for leadership roles. The chairman of the board of legislators would see his pay climb to about $90,000.'b'Those who favored raises argued that their jobs were far more demanding and time-consuming than their relatively small-bore salaries indicated. This argument presumes that there is an imbalance between what legislators do and what they are paid for. Any raise would therefore represent pay for pure accomplishment -- simple recompense for work that had previously been done for free.'b'That could be true, but there should be a way to make sure, to ease the minds of voters who suspect otherwise. Why not steal a page from Paul Feiner, the passionately populist supervisor of Greenburgh, who sets aside a portion of his salary in escrow every year, and claims it only if he accomplishes a set of tasks laid out at the beginning of the year?'b"This is corny symbolism -- the amount at risk is only a few thousand dollars. But like many of Mr. Feiner's gimmicky governing tactics, it feels right. It respects the voters' desire for accountability in spending and provides a useful reminder of promises made, kept, broken or deferred. (Mr. Feiner, if you care, announced in December that he would return $1,649.50 of the $5,000 in salary he had placed in escrow, because he had accomplished only 67.01 percent of the 77 goals he had set for himself at the beginning of January. Shame on him, and bless him.)"b"The Westchester Board of Legislators could dedicate the amount of their raises to a similar program, one designed to keep their hands off the taxpayer's money until they can prove to the voters that they deserve it."b'Or they could start now to educate the public about why their demanding jobs require double-digit pay increases, and let such raises take effect after informed voters go to the polls in an election year.'b'Neither circumstance seems likely.'b'Mayor Michael Bloomberg rides to a second inauguration today on the hopes of millions of New Yorkers. Limited by law to two terms and showing no interest so far in higher office, he can spend the next four years building his legacy.'b"For an example of how a chief executive can fritter away a final term, Mr. Bloomberg needs only to look to Albany and the wheel-spinning of the state's lame-duck governor, George Pataki. Mr. Bloomberg has always treated Mr. Pataki with great respect, but the time for deference is over. The mayor has already moved to take more control over the stalled redevelopment of Lower Manhattan. The state should also be pressed hard either to fix its Medicaid program or to stop making localities pay such a big share of the bill for its mismanagement."b"Mr. Bloomberg has always made public schools his top priority. Fixing the curriculum and improving principal and teacher training are critical. But so is providing a solid financial base for the future. To do that, he will have to lobby the governor and State Legislature to respond to the court order that the city's schools be given enough resources to offer each child a decent education."b"Our new year's wish list for Mr. Bloomberg is a long one. We wish that he would couple his achievements in crime-fighting with serious attention to police abuses of the public's civil rights, and that he would expand his commitment to building housing for the working class to other issues affecting poor New Yorkers, like food stamp eligibility. His solid waste plan is a good one, but it will be pointless unless Mr. Bloomberg implements it before he leaves office. And we hope that the mayor uses his unusual position to go a few places where no normal politician dares, like imposing congestion pricing for cars coming into those areas of the city with the heaviest traffic."b"It's a luxury for a city to have a mayor with more money than he knows what to do with and no need to build up political chits for the future. History will judge him by how well he uses these extraordinary advantages."b"FOR the last nine years, the Blind Tiger Ale House on Hudson Street in the West Village was one of the best places for New York's beer lovers to be on New Year's Eve. But last night, its doors were locked. The wee hours of Dec. 29 marked the end of an era -- the last pint was poured at the Tiger. No one knows yet what will take its place, but if the neighborhood trend continues, it will be a high-end retail store, perhaps another Ralph Lauren boutique."b'The place had been around for only a decade, but in that time it became practically world famous for its beer selection. American microbrews, classic Belgians and a selection of others handpicked from around the globe were poured from 24 taps, two handpulls and endless bottles.'b'But the Tiger was more than just a place where you could count on drinking a Sierra Nevada Harvest Ale in the fall and Southampton Double Espresso Stout in the winter. It was a cornerstone of the West Village, a place where people from the neighborhood and beyond came to enjoy good company and great beer.'b"It didn't seem special at first glance. It was dark and a little dingy, just one small room with a few wooden tables. The graffiti in the downstairs men's room elevated profanity to an art form, and not all the barstools had their legs intact. The bar itself was elegant -- a deep brown wood with zebra-like stripes in the grain. There were two televisions, but the Tiger was no sports bar. (Though I did discover it while looking for a place to watch football on Sundays with my friend and his 6-month-old daughter. Baby-friendly bars in Manhattan are few.)"b"I soon became one of the regulars. So regular that on Friday afternoons, the Tiger became my office. I sat at the corner of the bar with my laptop and cellphone, drinking seltzer, chatting with Louise the bartender and trying to make sure the bar cats (Sierra and Liberty) didn't pounce on my keyboard."b'And though the Tiger was a good place to work, it was an even better place to socialize. I met two of my closest friends, Phil and Ray, there. Three of the bartenders were at my wedding. Louise even catered the affair.'b'But now, the bar is closed. Apparently, what has happened one block over on Bleecker Street is now happening on Hudson. The small, independently owned businesses are giving way to the fancy chain stores. As the rents go up, the antiques stores and neighborhood bars, the bakeries and card shops, the hardware stores and funky clothing shops are vanishing and being replaced by stores selling $1,500 handbags.'b"In the Tiger's case, the building on the corner of Hudson and 10th is being remodeled, and the rent will more than double when the job is complete. Even a cash cow like the Blind Tiger can't make the numbers work. How do the fancy chain stores make money? They don't necessarily have to."b'When you\'re a high-end retail brand, your profit isn\'t made in a West Village storefront. A downtown boutique can simply be a branding statement. In other words, if you have a shop in the "right" neighborhood in Manhattan, your brand has the perceived cachet to sell like hotcakes in low-rent malls across suburbia.'b"While I understand the economics of the situation, it is still galling, even wrong. I have so many memories associated with the Tiger. Of sharing good times, birthdays, engagements. Of rallying behind a friend in need: the benefit party we had for Phil to help him cover his costs when he got colon cancer. And I'll never forget that night in September when regulars and a soot-covered news crew gathered at the bar as Humvees barreled up Hudson Street, away from the smoldering ruins of the twin towers."b"There's talk that the Tiger will return, a few blocks away, and I would be the first in line for a pint. In a city of strangers, we find our families in funny places -- coffee shops, office cubicles and, sometimes, the corner bar. I haven't yet heard of that happening in a Ralph Lauren boutique."b'OP-ED Peter Thomas Fornatale is the author of "The Poker Aficionado."'b'Even in a good year, it can seem sometimes as though our days are numbers on a string -- week after week, month after month passing in a straight chronological line through our allotted age. At times like that it feels as though we were living by the calendar astronomers sometimes use, by which today is the Julian day 2453737. To envision today as 2453737 instead of Jan. 1, 2006, is to grasp immediately how welcoming, how comforting the cyclical nature of our lives really is. Our house of time is a circular one, full of familiar landmarks that we commemorate year after year as they come in sight again.'b'It is always surprising how refreshing it is to come upon New Year, how vital the idea of starting over always is. Of course there is no starting over, not really. But the promise of the new year is not merely a metaphor or a delusion. We are creatures bound by our habitation on this planet to live by the inevitable circularities of light and season, no matter how abstracted or urbane our lives have become. And we are no less habituated to the cycles of promise and renewal. To live without a sense of promise is barely to live at all.'b'There is some strange genius in New Year. The turning of the calendar does nothing to cauterize the past. But here in the dead of winter -- with most of winter well in front of us -- New Year comes as a reminder of how much regeneration lies ahead. The sun will roll northward again, and the soil will warm, and whether we care to know it or not, the earth will do its best to rejuvenate itself. It may seem odd to think of this day as the token of all that. Today may feel like a momentary pause in the flow of our lives, a time to take stock. But tomorrow will be 2453738, and off we will go again.'b'Those of us who write about our families inevitably engage in conversations with the dead. The two specters who take up most of my time these days were black, slave-era founders of the Staples family line. My great-grandfather John Wesley Staples, of whom I have often written, was conceived in the waning days of the Civil War, narrowly missed being born a slave and died just 11 years before my birth. His mother, Somerville Staples, was enslaved in the home of a prominent Virginia doctor when she became pregnant with John Wesley, her last child and the first freeborn member of the Staples clan.'b'My great-grandfather and his mother were barely visible against the backdrop of the 19th-century South when I first started to focus on them about 15 years ago. Since then, the outlines of their lives have become steadily clearer, thanks to remembrances from elderly relatives and documents that have recently turned up in the public record. It will take years, perhaps even decades, to flesh them out fully. But it is already clear that their 21st-century descendants stand heavily in their debt and that my career as a writer would have been much less likely -- and perhaps even impossible -- without them.'b"My older uncles, some of whom practically grew up in John Wesley's house, regaled me with tales of his wealth and his taste for fancy cars -- and the fierceness with which he responded to white Southerners who crossed him. But the most crucial fact about my great-grandfather, it seems to me, was that he could read, write and calculate fairly well -- even though he was born in 1865, when, thanks to the policies of enslavement, fewer than 1 in 10 black Southerners could read."b'Literate black people were not immune to the mob violence and intensifying racism that greeted all African-Americans after the Civil War. Nevertheless, the ability to read and write gave them a vantage point on their circumstances and protected them from swindlers who regularly stripped illiterate people of land and other assets. For these families, literacy was a form of social capital that could be passed from one generation to the next. By contrast, nonliterate families were disproportionately vulnerable to the Jim Crow policies and social exploitation that often locked them out of the American mainstream for generations on end.'b'The connection between black literacy in the 19th century and present-day professional success is a touchy subject, as is the entire issue of class distinctions among black Americans. Even so, the advantages that accrued to the early literate classes would be clearly evident during the 20th century. In the 1940\'s, for example, the sociologist E. Horace Fitchett surveyed students at Howard University, then the seat of the black elite. Half of his respondents claimed to be descended from that small part of the black population that was free before Emancipation, which typically had greater access to education. Similarly, in 1963, the sociologist Horace Mann Bond wrote: "I have  been astonished to discover how largely the 10 percent of Negroes who were free in 1860 have dominated the production of Negro professionals (and intellectuals) up to the present day." The black intellectual and professional classes have grown significantly since then. But studies of those groups today would probably show a strong relationship between early emancipation and membership in the present-day black elite.'b"Not all of the 20th-century intellectuals Bond encountered had come from the free classes, however. Some were descendants of well-situated house slaves who had experienced close contact with the white elites of the day and who had had early opportunities to be educated. As a slave serving in the home of a doctor, John Wesley's mother, Somerville, would have been among those black women who had access to books and the conversation of cultured whites, and who knew that literacy marked the crucial distinction between the free and the enslaved. John Wesley might have attended an early school. But he could just as easily have learned to read and write in the household where his mother had been enslaved and where she continued to live for several years after Emancipation."b"Thus prepared, my great-grandfather and his wife, Eliza, moved the family swiftly from the shadows of slavery into the educated, landholding classes. By the 1890's, John Wesley had quit a job at a railroad and was running a successful farm that grew tomatoes for a nearby cannery. By the turn of the 20th century, he had joined with two neighbors to hire a teacher and build the one-room school where their children were educated. Soon afterward he bought his flashy Model T Ford and began to amass the pot of cash that he would leave behind when he died."b'Enamored of the patriarch, my uncles absorbed his swagger and his aphoristic style of speech -- and later passed them on to my generation. My uncle Paul also recalled the vanity that John Wesley displayed when he sat down to write. He penned even grocery notes with a flourish, pausing often to lick the pencil point. His gestures said: When you remember me to people, tell them I could read and write.'b"The East End is where Long Island's immense river of cars and trains turns into a pair of trickling tributaries, choked to chronic inefficiency in that narrow, remote terrain. Everybody who lives here knows this; the question is what to do about it, besides kvetching and setting aside ever more time to drive to the ferry, beach or hardware store."b'Fixing the problem has been a low priority for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Long Island Rail Road, which have their eyes focused on bustling hubs like Hicksville and Jamaica. The M.T.A., after all, is the agency that wanted to ease its budget problems by lopping off extremities like the Greenport line. And with only a handful of trains serving the South and North Forks each day, the railroad seems to treat the area more like an obligation than an opportunity.'b'But an opportunity exists. There is no reason, other than a failure of imagination, bureaucratic listlessness and hard-wired parochialism, that a traffic and transit solution cannot emerge on the East End. Nearly all the ingredients are in place, and they all point toward an answer that involves trains, buses or some combination of the two.'b'First, there is a clear public consensus against adding highways or widening existing ones, and in favor of preserving open space. Second, there is an existing, and underused, network of railroad tracks. Finally, the area is blessed with an array of local politicians and residents who have engaged the problem in creative ways. They include State Assemblyman Fred Thiele Jr. of Sag Harbor, who has submitted legislation to create a transit authority on the East End, and Hank de Cillia, executive director of a private, nonprofit group called Five Town Rural Transit.'b"If you are looking for a plan, Mr. de Cillia's group already has one. It involves turning existing Long Island Rail Road tracks into the spine of a local transit network, with shuttles running frequently between Ronkonkoma and Greenport on the North Fork and Speonk and Montauk on the South Fork. Buses would serve the 20 or so train stations, connecting the dots still further among villages, hamlets and the parallel rail lines."b'Mr. de Cillia expects that the system could be set up largely with federal money and be run for millions of dollars less than the East End contributes now in taxes earmarked for the M.T.A. It is hard for us to judge how realistic that prediction is, and we are well aware of the challenges in persuading local towns and villages to sign on to such a plan, and the ever-present hurdle of governmental inertia. A recent federally financed study of transportation options on the East End took four years and $1 million to reach the conclusion that, yeah, public transportation is a good idea.'b"Mr. de Cillia's vision may sound fanciful. But if you think of what might result -- a 35- minute ride on summer weekends between Hampton Bays and East Hampton -- it's the dreadful status quo that seems ridiculous. A thoughtful cover article by Bruce Lambert in this section last week looked at the many ways we are being urged -- or forced -- to rethink how Long Island works. Mr. Thiele likes to remind people that the idea of bus service was once scoffed at in the Hamptons, and then the Hampton Jitney was born."b'It was a banner year in 2005 for big speeches from global leaders about fighting third-world poverty. But if any of their promises are going to come close to being kept, 2006 must be a year of action.'b'The British prime minister, Tony Blair, called Africa\'s poverty "the fundamental moral challenge of our generation." The United Nations\' secretary general, Kofi Annan, spoke of a generation that could make poverty history. President Bush twice stood on the world stage and promised to sharply increase development assistance to poor nations. He did it first at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Scotland in July, when he pledged to double aid to Africa by 2010. He did it again two months later, at a United Nations meeting in New York, where he urged that the "Monterrey Consensus," which calls on rich countries to increase their spending on development aid to 0.7 percent of gross national product, be put into effect.'b"And finally, at last month's World Trade Organization meeting in Hong Kong, trade ministers from 149 countries agreed to eliminate export subsidies for farm products by 2013, opening up new opportunities to farmers from poor countries who now have to compete against subsidized products. The ministers also vowed to offer technical export assistance to poor countries and to get rid of cotton export subsidies this year."b"These were all very fine words. This year, it is our fervent hope that the men who stood up on the world stage and uttered them will put them into action. It is past time for global leaders to put the Millennium Development plan they hatched back at the turn of the century into real action and make poverty history. It's time to channel real money into ground-level, village-based water programs, to actually spend money on a malaria vaccine and AIDS drugs and mosquito bed nets and school feeding programs. There are ways to bypass corrupt local governments, and funnel aid directly to those on the ground who need it. It is time for President Bush to go to Capitol Hill and demand that lawmakers fully finance his Millennium Challenge Account, which is supposed to increase United States assistance to poor countries that are committed to policies promoting development. This program is a worthy endeavor, but both execution and funding have been lackluster."b"Britain, France and Germany all coupled their goals of spending 0.7 percent of their gross national products on development aid with a timetable; the target date is 2015. The United States has not been so specific. (To its credit, the United States did join with six other rich countries to reach a deal to eliminate $40 billion of debt owed by some of the world's poorest countries.)"b"The world needs no more speeches in 2006 about global poverty. The six million children under 5 who die every year of diseases that can be easily and cheaply treated do not need more lofty goals. Nor do the 40 million young people still unable to go to school, or the 300 million Africans who lack access to clean water. The time for talking is over. Our resolution for the new year is to keep track of how many of last year's promises turn into something more than words."b"London - IF chimpanzees observed New Year's Day, they would have much to reflect on. In 2005, they joined humans, chickens and mosquitoes, as well as less famous occupants of the planet, on an exclusive but growing list: organisms whose complete genomes have been sequenced."b'What would they make of this news, I wonder? Perhaps they would resent the genetic evidence that they are related to us. Or perhaps they would, as I do, revel in being part of the immensity of nature and a product of evolution, the same process that gave rise to dinosaurs, bread molds and myriad organisms too wacky to invent.'b'Organisms like the sea slug Elysia chlorotica. This animal not only looks like a leaf, but it also acts like one, making energy from the sun. Its secret? When it eats algae, it extracts the chloroplasts, the tiny entities that plants and algae use to manufacture energy from sunlight, and shunts them into special cells beneath its skin. The chloroplasts continue to function; the slug thus becomes able to live on a diet composed only of sunbeams.'b"Still more fabulous is the bacterium Brocadia anammoxidans. It blithely makes a substance that to most organisms is a lethal poison -- namely, hydrazine. That's rocket fuel."b"And then there's the wasp Cotesia congregata. She injects her eggs into the bodies of caterpillars. As she does so, she also injects a virus that disables the caterpillar's immune system and prevents it from attacking the eggs. When the eggs hatch, the larvae eat the caterpillar alive."b"It's hard not to have an insatiable interest in organisms like these, to be enthralled by the strangeness, the complexity, the breathtaking variety of nature."b"Just think: the Indus River dolphin doesn't sleep as you or I do, or indeed as most mammals, for several hours at once. Instead, it takes microsleeps, naps that last for a few seconds, like a driver dozing at the wheel."b'Or consider this: a few days after its conception, a pig embryo has become a filament that is about a yard long.'b'Or: the single-celled parasite that causes malaria is descended from algae. We know this because it carries within itself the remnants of a chloroplast.'b"It's not that I have a fetish for obscure facts. It's that small facts add up to big pictures. For although Mother Nature's infinite variety seems incomprehensible at first, it is not. The forces of nature are not random; often, they are strongly predictable."b"For example, if you were to discover a new species and you told me that the male is much bigger than the female, I would tell you what the mating system is likely to be: males fight each other for access to females. Or if you discover that the male's testicles make up a large part of his weight, I can tell you that the females in his species consort with several males at a time."b"Suppose you find that a particular bacterium lives exclusively in the gullets of leeches and helps them digest blood. Then I can tell you how that bacterium's genome is likely to differ from those of its free-living cousins; among other changes, the genome will be smaller, and it will have lost sets of genes that are helpful for living free but useless for living inside another being."b"Because a cell is a kind of factory that produces proteins, and because proteins can have a variety of components, some of which are cheaper to synthesize than others, you might expect that proteins that are mass produced are made from cheaper components than proteins that are constructed only occasionally. And you'd be right."b'The patterns are everywhere. Mammals that feed on ants and termites have typically evolved long, thin noses and long, sticky tongues. A virus that is generally passed from mother to child will tend to make its host less sick than one that readily jumps from one host to another via a cough or a sneeze.'b'When I was in school, I learned none of this. Biology was a subject that seemed as exciting as a clump of cotton wool. It was a dreary exercise in the memorization and regurgitation of apparently unconnected facts. Only later did I learn about evolution and how it transforms biology from that mass of cotton wool into a magnificent tapestry, a tapestry we can contemplate and begin to understand.'b'Some people want to think of humans as the product of a special creation, separate from other living things. I am not among them; I am glad it is not so. I am proud to be part of the riot of nature, to know that the same forces that produced me also produced bees, giant ferns and microbes that live at the bottom of the sea.'b'For me, the knowledge that we evolved is a source of solace and hope. I find it a relief that plagues and cancers and wasp larvae that eat caterpillars alive are the result of the impartial -- and comprehensible -- forces of evolution rather than the caprices of a deity.'b'More than that, I find that in viewing ourselves as one species out of hundreds of millions, we become more remarkable, not less so. No other animal that I have heard of can live so peaceably in such close quarters with so many individuals that are unrelated. No other animal routinely bothers to help the sick and the dying, or tries to save those hurt in an earthquake or flood.'b'Which is not to say that we are all we might wish to be. But in putting ourselves into our place in nature, in comparing ourselves with other species, we have a real hope of reaching a better understanding, and appreciation, of ourselves.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Olivia Judson is an evolutionary biologist at Imperial College in London.'b"THE New York Times's explanation of its decision to report, after what it said was a one-year delay, that the National Security Agency is eavesdropping domestically without court-approved warrants was woefully inadequate. And I have had unusual difficulty getting a better explanation for readers, despite the paper's repeated pledges of greater transparency."b"For the first time since I became public editor, the executive editor and the publisher have declined to respond to my requests for information about news-related decision-making. My queries concerned the timing of the exclusive Dec. 16 article about President Bush's secret decision in the months after 9/11 to authorize the warrantless eavesdropping on Americans in the United States."b'I e-mailed a list of 28 questions to Bill Keller, the executive editor, on Dec. 19, three days after the article appeared. He promptly declined to respond to them. I then sent the same questions to Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher, who also declined to respond. They held out no hope for a fuller explanation in the future.'b"Despite this stonewalling, my objectives today are to assess the flawed handling of the original explanation of the article's path into print, and to offer a few thoughts on some factors that could have affected the timing of the article. My intention is to do so with special care, because my 40-plus years of newspapering leave me keenly aware that some of the toughest calls an editor can face are involved here -- those related to intelligence gathering, election-time investigative articles and protection of sources. On these matters, reasonable disagreements can abound inside the newsroom."b"(A word about my reporting for this column: With the top Times people involved in the final decisions refusing to talk and urging everyone else to remain silent, it seemed clear to me that chasing various editors and reporters probably would yield mostly anonymous comments that the ultimate decision-makers would not confirm or deny. So I decided not to pursue those who were not involved in the final decision to publish the article -- or to refer to Times insiders quoted anonymously in others' reporting.)"b"At the outset, it's essential to acknowledge the far-reaching importance of the eavesdropping article's content to Times readers and to the rest of the nation. Whatever its path to publication, Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Keller deserve credit for its eventual appearance in the face of strong White House pressure to kill it. And the basic accuracy of the account of the eavesdropping stands unchallenged -- a testament to the talent in the trenches."b'But the explanation of the timing and editing of the front-page article by James Risen and Eric Lichtblau caused major concern for scores of Times readers. The terse one-paragraph explanation noted that the White House had asked for the article to be killed. "After meeting with senior administration officials to hear their concerns, the newspaper delayed publication for a year to conduct additional reporting," it said. "Some information that administration officials argued could be useful to terrorists has been omitted."'b"If Times editors hoped the brief mention of the one-year delay and the omitted sensitive information would assure readers that great caution had been exercised in publishing the article, I think they miscalculated. The mention of a one-year delay, almost in passing, cried out for a fuller explanation. And the gaps left by the explanation hardly matched the paper's recent bold commitments to readers to explain how news decisions are made."b'At the very least, The Times should have told readers in the article why it could not address specific issues. At least some realization of this kicked in rather quickly after publication. When queried by reporters for other news media on Dec. 16, Mr. Keller offered two prepared statements that shed some additional light on the timing and handling of the article.'b"The longer of Mr. Keller's two prepared statements said the paper initially held the story based on national security considerations and assurances that everyone in government believed the expanded eavesdropping was legal. But when further reporting showed that legal questions loomed larger than The Times first thought and that a story could be written without certain genuinely sensitive technical details, he said, the paper decided to publish. (Mr. Keller's two prepared statements, as well as some thoughtful reader comments, are posted on the Public Editor's Web Journal.)"b'Times readers would have benefited if the explanation in the original article had simply been expanded to include the points Mr. Keller made after publication. And if the length of that proved too clunky for inclusion in the article, the explanation could have been published as a separate article near the main one. Even the sentence he provided me as to why he would not answer my questions offered some possible insight.'b'Protection of sources is the most plausible reason I\'ve been able to identify for The Times\'s woeful explanation in the article and for the silence of Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Keller. I base this on Mr. Keller\'s response to me: "There is really no way to have a full discussion of the back story without talking about when and how we knew what we knew, and we can\'t do that."'b"Taken at face value, Mr. Keller seems to be contending that the sourcing for the eavesdropping article is so intertwined with the decisions about when and what to publish that a full explanation could risk revealing the sources. I have no trouble accepting the importance of confidential sourcing concerns here. The reporters' nearly one dozen confidential sources enabled them to produce a powerful article that I think served the public interest."b'With confidential sourcing under attack and the reporters digging in the backyards of both intelligence and politics, The Times needs to guard the sources for the eavesdropping article with extra special care. Telling readers the time that the reporters got one specific fact, for instance, could turn out to be a dangling thread of information that the White House or the Justice Department could tug at until it leads them to the source. Indeed, word came Friday that the Justice Department has opened an investigation into the disclosure of classified information about the eavesdropping.'b'The most obvious and troublesome omission in the explanation was the failure to address whether The Times knew about the eavesdropping operation before the Nov. 2, 2004, presidential election. That point was hard to ignore when the explanation in the article referred rather vaguely to having "delayed publication for a year." To me, this language means the article was fully confirmed and ready to publish a year ago -- after perhaps weeks of reporting on the initial tip -- and then was delayed.'b'Mr. Keller dealt directly with the timing of the initial tip in his later statements. The eavesdropping information "first became known to Times reporters" a year ago, he said. These two different descriptions of the article\'s status in the general vicinity of Election Day last year leave me puzzled.'b"For me, however, the most obvious question is still this: If no one at The Times was aware of the eavesdropping prior to the election, why wouldn't the paper have been eager to make that clear to readers in the original explanation and avoid that politically charged issue? The paper's silence leaves me with uncomfortable doubts."b'On the larger question of why the eavesdropping article finally appeared when it did, a couple of possibilities intrigue me.'b'One is that Times editors said they discovered there was more concern inside the government about the eavesdropping than they had initially been told. Mr. Keller\'s prepared statements said that "a year ago," officials "assured senior editors of The Times that a variety of legal checks had been imposed that satisfied everyone involved that the program raised no legal questions." So the paper "agreed not to publish at that time" and continued reporting.'b'But in the months that followed, Mr. Keller said, "we developed a fuller picture of the concerns and misgivings that had been expressed during the life of the program" and "it became clear those questions loomed larger within the government than we had previously understood."'b'The impact of a new book about intelligence by Mr. Risen on the timing of the article is difficult to gauge. The book, "State of War: The Secret History of the CIA and the Bush Administration," was not mentioned in the Dec. 16 article. Mr. Keller asserted in the shorter of his two statements that the article wasn\'t timed to the forthcoming book, and that "its origins and publication are completely independent of Jim\'s book."'b'The publication of Mr. Risen\'s book, with its discussion of the eavesdropping operation, was scheduled for mid-January -- but has now been moved up to Tuesday. Despite Mr. Keller\'s distancing of The Times from "State of War," Mr. Risen\'s publisher told me on Dec. 21 that the paper\'s Washington bureau chief had talked to her twice in the previous 30 days about the book.'b"So it seems to me the paper was quite aware that it faced the possibility of being scooped by its own reporter's book in about four weeks. But the key question remains: To what extent did the book cause top editors to shrug off the concerns that had kept them from publishing the eavesdropping article for months?"b"A final note: If Mr. Risen's book or anything else of substance should open any cracks in the stone wall surrounding the handling of the eavesdropping article, I will have my list of 28 questions (35 now, actually) ready to e-mail again to Mr. Keller."b"Gifford Miller served for 10 years in the City Council, the last four as its powerful speaker, leading what may have been the most spirited, cantankerous council any New York mayor has ever had to deal with. As a new council prepares to name his successor, Mr. Miller deserves to be remembered for exercising strong and creative leadership at moments when the mayor's executive ambitions needed a restraining hand."b"Mr. Miller was 32 years old when he stepped into the speaker's chair. His council was a combustible mix of freshly minted public servants and term-limited members -- including Mr. Miller -- who were plotting their next career moves. Even with that distraction, or perhaps because of it, the council passed important legislation."b'It ordered that emergency contraception be available in hospitals and drug stores. It mandated stricter gun controls and the abatement of lead paint dust from apartments with children. It placed restrictions on predatory lending, a practice that was snatching homes away from working families and the elderly. It created a living wage law.'b"Mr. Miller's overwhelmingly Democratic council overrode vetoes by Mayor Michael Bloomberg some three dozen times. There were episodes of partisan pugnacity we could have done without, but there were also times when we were happy to see the council hold firm."b"In 2002, for instance, when the mayor announced that he planned to suspend recycling for budgetary reasons, Mr. Miller made sure that metal, along with newspaper recycling, continued. Mr. Bloomberg did suspend glass and plastic recycling but eventually came to agree that recycling in general made economic sense. He not only restored full recycling but set ambitious goals -- a conversion that owed much to the council's stubbornness."b"The two butted heads again on trash disposal, a difficult issue on which Mr. Bloomberg occupied the moral high ground. The mayor, who wanted to spread the burden among different neighborhoods, proposed a garbage transfer station in Mr. Miller's predominantly white and privileged district. Mr. Miller's complaints smacked of elitism, and he failed to muster a necessary veto override."b'The chemistry between mayor and speaker could be painfully uneasy, especially on budgetary issues. To their mutual credit, that did not hurt the final product. Mr. Miller always seemed to relish his role in restoring money for social programs, like meals for seniors, and keeping libraries open.'b"More important for the city, he showed courage by pushing through a property tax hike of 18 and a half percent. It kept the city running, but at political peril to council members. The mayor -- who had wanted a 25 percent increase -- also took heat, but later helped himself with voters by giving homeowners property tax rebates of $400. Mr. Miller's counterproposal was fairer -- giving rebates to renters, too. But the speaker, the career politician, lost again to Mr. Bloomberg, the ultimate salesman."b"Among Mr. Miller's strengths was his ability to see all sides of an issue, but sometimes this led to indecision, and he seemed not to understand how he annoyed everyone by sitting on the fence forever, as he did before supporting the lead paint bill and opposing the West Side stadium. His deliberate style also hurt him when he did not move quickly enough to pursue sexual harassment charges against Allan Jennings, a council member from Queens."b'But when he made up his mind he could be tenacious. He led an activist council to the end, passing bills to help businesses owned by women and minorities, to provide translation services and to help low-income seniors with their heating bills.'b'A battle-hardened politician at age 36, Mr. Miller was forcibly retired by the term limits law. His successor will likely try to change that law with a council vote. Mr. Miller has sagely advised against such a move. This issue, he has said, should be left to the voters.'b"LAST month, during the height of holiday festivities in Manhattan, my husband and I attempted to join a group of 12 people at one of the trendiest, most famous Asian restaurants on the Upper East Side to celebrate a close friend's birthday. Because my husband, Tom, is a 45-year-old quadriplegic (nine months after our wedding 12 years ago, he broke his neck diving into our pool) and confined to a 300-pound electric wheelchair, our friend's wife called the restaurant in advance to ensure that it was fully wheelchair-accessible. The restaurant assured her that it was."b"However, after driving into Manhattan from our home in the suburbs and arriving at the restaurant, we encountered an unwelcome surprise. There was no elevator, ramp or kitchen access, and the restaurant's staff looked at us dumbfounded and confused."b'We always come prepared with two different sized ramps of our own, which in most cases do the trick. However, the stairs leading down to the dining room are so steep and numerous that a ramp placed over them would have resembled a ski jump. After a few clumsy attempts to negotiate the situation, the headwaiter very politely informed us that the restaurant was not, in fact, wheelchair-accessible at all, but that the staff would be happy to carry my husband in his wheelchair down the steep flight of steps.'b"Not only was this plan physically impossible (my husband is a solidly built 200-pound, six-foot man -- with the wheelchair, the total load would be 500 pounds), it was also dangerous. Moreover, it was demeaning. Being carried down stairs in full view of the entire dining room would have humiliated my husband, for whom normality is of paramount importance. I know very few people who would willingly accept being put in that position. After all, people flock to Manhattan's fashionable, pricey restaurants and endure enormous bills and long table waits to feel glamorous and be treated like royalty, not to lose their dignity in public. Sadly, my husband and I had no choice but to leave, insisting that our friends stay to enjoy their dinner."b'After more than a decade of dealing with this, it is clear to me that many establishments and their staffs do not fully grasp what it means to be wheelchair-accessible. Some places that claim to be fully accessible are not outfitted correctly or completely for the disabled, and many more do not properly train their staff members to respectfully assist those with disabilities. My husband and I are far from being "wheelchair militants" -- we are not overly fussy people and are happy to accept help when needed. But we do not particularly enjoy being misled or encountering ignorance, indifference or unnecessary awkwardness.'b'In another -- somewhat comic -- example, Tom and I were doing our last-minute Christmas shopping at a big toy store. We parked our car at the handicapped spot in the front, but discovered upon our return that another shopper had parked too close to us, covering the blue lines that are intended for wheelchair ramps. I ran inside and quickly talked to the salespeople, who were apparently so overwhelmed by the Christmas rush that they could not help us out. One of the newer salesgirls was appointed to make the announcement, but was reluctant to mount the podium in front of all the shoppers.'b'At my wit\'s end, I grabbed the microphone from the girl, got on the podium and started shouting: "Attention shoppers. Will the owners of the car with the following license plate kindly move their vehicle? You are blocking a handicapped spot." The faulty parker, a sweet older woman, was horrified at her faux pas, apologized profusely and explained she never realized what those blue lines meant.'b"She's not alone. The failure to consider the needs of disabled people often simply reflects a lack of awareness. I can't tell you how many times a restaurant hostess has asked Tom if he will be getting out of his wheelchair to sit at the table. Why do they ask this? Do they really think he would be rolling around in a $7,000 contraption if he could walk into the restaurant?"b'Of course, as both the wife of a quadriplegic and a 20-year veteran of the hospitality industry, I am particularly sensitive to the daily challenges the disabled face. But the truth is that there needs to be better enforcement of and adherence to wheelchair access, and only establishments that truly meet those requirements should be permitted to say that they do. People in the hospitality industry, and in other businesses with public spaces, have to be better trained to deal with disabled customers. And everyone should be better educated about the needs of people with disabilities. Otherwise, expect fewer polite requests and just maybe a little more militancy.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Leslie Mastin is president of an event-management company.'b"It's no secret that the oceans are under siege. In recent years, two major commissions -- the Congressionally established United States Commission on Ocean Policy and the independent Pew Oceans Commission -- have urged prompt action to end overfishing of commercially valuable species, reduce pollution from cities and farms, restore wetlands and control development along the coasts. Obviously, a problem of this magnitude requires intervention by Washington and even international organizations, but the states -- which control waters up to three miles offshore -- also have important roles to play."b'With that in mind, some states, notably California, have recently strengthened their laws and overhauled the way they manage ocean resources. Now a coalition of environmental groups is urging Gov. George Pataki to do the same.'b'Over the years, New York has done much to protect its marine assets -- its 1,850 miles of tidal shoreline, its many beaches and its rich assortment of distinct coastal environments, notably the South Shore of Long Island, Long Island Sound and the Hudson River estuary. But the challenges keep growing.'b'Nearly 40 percent of coastal waters fail to meet either state or federal water quality standards, catches for big commercial fish species have declined, and in some areas shellfish stocks have crashed. The yield in Great South Bay, once one of the most productive clamming areas along the East Coast, is a mere 2 percent of what it was in 1976.'b'There are any number of sensible steps that can be taken. The most obvious is to improve coordination and accountability among the many agencies with jurisdiction over marine resources. This could be done by executive order or, as California did, with legislation conferring power on an interagency council to help set policy and coordinate action on the entire range of ocean-related issues, from upgrading sewage treatment to preserving wetlands to curbing coastal sprawl.'b"Meanwhile, state laws could be strengthened to help end overfishing. Protected zones for shellfish could be established until their populations recover. The governor could use his influence to broaden the range of candidates nominated to the industry-dominated regional councils that determine catch limits, adding more scientists and conservationists to the mix. An increase in the state's Environmental Protection Fund would strengthen research and improve law enforcement."b"All this may require some knocking together of heads in Albany. But legislators like Long Island's Thomas DiNapoli, the chairman of the Standing Committee on Environmental Conservation, stand ready to help move things forward."b'The issue would seem a natural for Mr. Pataki. He cares about conservation and he knows something about marine issues, having served on the Pew Commission. Adding the oceans to his to-do list could only enhance his environmental legacy.'b'New Haven - I feel both personal and literary regrets that, if Pope Benedict XVI gets his way, in perhaps a year or so Limbo will be in limbo (as it were). The issue spurs a reminiscence. Walking down Broadway on a chilly Upper West Side morning in 1972, I bumped into my good acquaintance, the novelist Anthony Burgess, and at his request I resigned to him the bottle of Fundador I had just purchased at a nearby liquor store. Standing in a tattered robe and blinking in the sun, after a night devoted to composition, Burgess required immediate medication.'b'Besides, he had introduced me to this invigorating Spanish brandy only a few weeks before, so I urged him to retain the bottle after he had absorbed two prodigious swigs outdoors. As I wended back to the liquor shop, he called out after me: "The debt shall be paid, Bloom! When you arrive in Limbo, I will await you there with a bottle of Fundador."'b'A lapsed Roman Catholic (like his idol, James Joyce), Burgess was being unduly optimistic about our reunion on the Other Shore, since neither of us qualified for Limbo, a state that the church, largely at the prodding of Thomas Aquinas, designated for unbaptized babies and the Hebrew patriarchs who preceded Jesus.'b'Dante, of course, in Canto IV of "The Inferno," went beyond Aquinas, and thronged Limbo with the philosophers and poets of the ancient world; primarily his beloved guide, Virgil, but also Homer, Horace, Ovid and others, and even literary characters like Hector and Aeneas. Rather surprisingly, Dante also admitted three Muslims: the warrior Saladin and the philosophers Avicenna and Averroes.'b'Limbo has a rich literary history, in honor of which I hope the pope and his International Theological Commission will refrain from exiling this amiably ambiguous realm. Hell, Purgatory and Heaven may seem rather strictly demarcated and limited destinations, without Limbo as an interesting outrider. In the Italian Renaissance poet Luduvico Ariosto\'s "Orlando Furioso," the knight Astolfo visits the moon\'s Limbo and discovers there all of earth\'s wastages: talents locked up in named vases, bribes hanging on gold hooks, and much besides.'b'In "Henry VIII," Shakespeare uses the "Limbo of the Fathers" as a synonym for prison, while John Milton in "Paradise Lost" gives us the Paradise of Fools as a "limbo large and broad," where winds blow about Roman Catholic cowls, hoods, habits, relics, beads, indulgences, pardons and Papal Bulls.'b'The 18th-century satirical poet Alexander Pope expands on Ariosto and Milton in "The Rape of the Lock," where the lunar Limbo contains "the smiles of harlots and the tears of heirs." Much more somber is the "Limbo" of the Romantic poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, most famous for "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" and "Kubla Khan." Coleridge\'s Limbo is not on the moon, nor on Hell\'s borders, but on the phantasmagoric line between what is and what is not, the waking nightmares of an opium addict: "The sole true Something -- This! In Limbo\'s Den/It frightens Ghosts, as here Ghosts frighten men."'b"The Vatican's motives for changing its theology doubtless are benign: worried African and Asian converts whose babies die before baptism will be reassured that Paradise, not Limbo, awaits the lost infants. And in any case, non-Catholics like myself need not mix in matters relevant only to the faithful. Still, a few days ago I received an anonymous phone call from a woman who assured me that my most recent book certainly would send me to Hell. I would prefer Limbo, if only to share Fundador again with Anthony Burgess."b'Op-Ed Columnist Harold Bloom is the author, most recently, of "Jesus and Yahweh: The Names Divine."'b'Washington - NANCY PELOSI, the Democratic leader in the House, sounded like an Old Testament prophet recently when she denounced the Republican budget for its "injustice and immorality" and urged her colleagues to cast their no votes "as an act of worship" during this religious season.'b'This, apparently, is what the Democrats had in mind when they vowed after President Bush\'s re-election to reclaim religious voters for their party. In the House, they set up a Democratic Faith Working Group. Senator Harry Reid, the minority leader, created a Web site called Word to the Faithful. And Democratic officials began holding conferences with religious progressives. All of this was with the intention of learning how to link faith with public policy. An event for liberal politicians and advocates at the University of California at Berkeley in July even offered a seminar titled "I Don\'t Believe in God, but I Know America Needs a Spiritual Left."'b"A look at the tactics and theology of the religious left, however, suggests that this is exactly what American politics does not need. If Democrats give religious progressives a stronger voice, they'll only replicate the misdeeds of the religious right."b'For starters, we\'ll see more attempts to draw a direct line from the Bible to a political agenda. The Rev. Jim Wallis, a popular adviser to leading Democrats and an organizer of the Berkeley meeting, routinely engages in this kind of Bible-thumping. In his book "God\'s Politics," Mr. Wallis insists that his faith-based platform transcends partisan categories.'b'"We affirm God\'s vision of a good society offered to us by the prophet Isaiah," he writes. Yet Isaiah, an agent of divine judgment living in a theocratic state, conveniently affirms every spending scheme of the Democratic Party. This is no different than the fundamentalist impulse to cite the book of Leviticus to justify laws against homosexuality.'b'When Christians -- liberal or conservative -- invoke a biblical theocracy as a handy guide to contemporary politics, they threaten our democratic discourse. Numerous "policy papers" from liberal churches and activist groups employ the same approach: they\'re awash in scriptural references to justice, poverty and peace, stacked alongside claims about global warming, debt relief and the United Nations Security Council.'b"Christians are right to argue that the Bible is a priceless source of moral and spiritual insight. But they're wrong to treat it as a substitute for a coherent political philosophy."b'There is another worrisome trait shared by religious liberals and many conservatives: the tendency to moralize in the most extreme terms. William Sloane Coffin of the Clergy Leadership Network was typical in his denunciation of the Bush tax cuts: "I think he should remember that it was the devil who tempted Jesus with unparalleled wealth and power."'b"This trend is at its worst in the misplaced outrage in the war against Islamic terrorism. It's true that in the days after the Sept. 11 attacks, some Christian conservatives shamed themselves by blaming the horror on feminists and gays, who allegedly incited God's wrath. But such nonsense is echoed by liberals like the theologian Stanley Hauerwas of Duke University."b'"The price that Americans are going to have to pay for the kind of arrogance that we are operating out of right now is going to be terrible indeed," he said of the United States\' response to the Qaeda attacks. "People will exact some very strong judgments against America -- and I think we will well deserve it." Professor Hauerwas joins a chorus of left-wing clerics and religious scholars who compare the United States to Imperial Rome and Nazi Germany.'b"Democrats who want religious values to play a greater role in their party might take a cue from the human-rights agenda of religious conservatives. Evangelicals begin with the Bible's account of the God-given dignity of every person. And they've joined hands with liberal and secular groups to defend the rights of the vulnerable and oppressed, be it through prison programs for offenders and their families, laws against the trafficking of women and children, or an American-brokered peace plan for Sudan. In each case believers have applied their religious ideals with a strong dose of realism and generosity."b"A completely secular public square is neither possible nor desirable; democracy needs the moral ballast of religion. But a partisan campaign to enlist the sacred is equally wrongheaded. When people of faith join political debates, they must welcome those democratic virtues that promote the common good: prudence, reason, compromise -- and a realization that politics can't usher in the kingdom of heaven."b'Op-Ed Contributor Joseph Loconte, a research fellow in religion at the Heritage Foundation and a commentator for National Public Radio, is the editor of "The End of Illusions: Religious Leaders Confront Hitler\'s Gathering Storm."'b"Last month the big challenge was to encourage Sunni Arabs to vote in Iraq's parliamentary election. They did, in hearteningly high numbers. Now the challenge is to convince the Sunnis that the results, giving them only a modest minority of seats, reflect not systematic fraud, but the fact that Sunni Arabs make up only a modest minority -- roughly 20 percent -- of Iraq's population."b"Convincing them has been no easy task, despite declarations by United Nations and other neutral observers that the elections were fair, credible and transparent. This page has emphasized the need for Iraq's majority Shiites and their Kurdish allies to be more inclusive in dealing with the Sunni Arab minority. But the other side of that coin is that the Sunnis themselves need to accept that in democracies, majorities rule, and that the special privileges they enjoyed under a succession of Sunni-dominated regimes are not a birthright."b"Sunni Arabs have disproportionately dominated Iraq's political elite since even before the modern Iraqi state was created after World War I. The Ottoman Turks favored their fellow Sunnis. The British worked through a Sunni family they installed on the Iraqi throne."b'The Baathist dictatorship was Sunni-led and, under Saddam Hussein, mercilessly persecuted Shiites and Kurds. It persecuted many Sunnis as well, but as a group they were favored with more than their share of scarce economic resources. Many Sunnis came to believe, and still believe, that they are not a minority at all and account for as much as half the Iraqi population.'b"The new political power of the long-oppressed Shiites and Kurds is proving very hard for many of Iraq's Sunni Arabs to accept. But until they can, it will be hard for them to find their legitimate place in a new democratic order."b'Only the Iraqis themselves can come together in a new national compact. Their willingness to do so in the near future is likely to depend to a large degree on how deftly America wields its enormous political influence during the next few weeks of political and constitutional bargaining.'b'Washington needs simultaneously to press the Shiites and Kurds to take a far more inclusive approach toward the Sunnis than they have over the past year and to press the Sunnis to accept the legitimacy of the latest election results. The Sunnis need to bargain more realistically and less menacingly for their fair share of power. They must recognize that they cannot continue to keep one foot in the insurgency and the other in the political process.'b"The chances of weaning armed jihadists and diehard Saddam Hussein loyalists from the insurgency any time soon are probably small. But what matters more to Iraq's future stability is whether Sunni Arabs who have taken up arms over local grievances can be brought to recognize that the most effective way to deal with those issues is through peaceful politics, not armed insurgency."b"Sunni Arabs have every right to insist that Shiite militias not be allowed to terrorize Sunnis, that Shiite-run police ministries not torture Sunni prisoners and that the Sunni middle class not be excluded from the army, the professions and politics through discriminatory anti-Baathist laws. They are right to demand that oil revenues, Iraq's main source of national wealth, be fairly shared by all provinces, not hoarded by the Shiite- and Kurdish-controlled provinces in which most known deposits are located."b'But the Sunnis have no legitimate claim to hold on to the special privileges lavished on them by past undemocratic regimes. And they surely have no right to invoke their loss of political dominance as an excuse for violence against government institutions and Shiite and Kurdish Iraqis.'b"NEW YORK CITY'S transit workers are back on the job, having cut a deal with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority that gives the union what it wanted on raises and pensions and gives the authority what it wanted on health care. The city, meanwhile, lost an estimated $1 billion during a frigid holiday shopping week that saw seven million commuters stranded."b"There's a better way than this to get a contract, and we can institute it simply by building on existing New York state law."b'The labor law that governs public service employees in New York is the Taylor Law. It prohibits strikes but grants workers the right to unionize, requires employers to negotiate terms and conditions of employment with unions, and sets forth procedures by which disputes can be resolved.'b'In 1985, Gov. Mario Cuomo signed an amendment to the Taylor Law that specifically addressed transit negotiations, offering a binding arbitration procedure to break deadlocked talks.'b"Binding arbitration was to take effect either when the State Public Employment Relations Board officially declared an impasse or when both negotiating parties requested it. At that point, a three-person arbitration panel would step in. It would determine an agreement, taking into consideration the public interest, the compensation of the employees in comparison to similar workers, the employer's ability to pay the requested upgrades, and the possible impact on fares and services."b"Arbitration, therefore, was established precisely to resolve the kind of stalemate that led to the recent three-day strike. But, each for its own reasons, the transportation authority and the union decided not to follow the procedure. Within the union, an insurgent segment bent on striking threatened a power struggle. Within the authority, the reasoning was more complicated, hinging on the authority's eagerness to raise the retirement age for new transit employees to 62 from 55."b"Tiered retirement benefit plans have been in effect for other public employees since at least 1972. Establishing a tiered system for transit workers, however, would require legislative action, and this could not take place without the union's acquiescence, which was not forthcoming in the negotiations."b'Because the pension issue is reserved for the legislature, it is not a matter for binding arbitration. This meant that any settlement forged by an arbitration panel would include decisions on wages, benefits and rules, but not on pensions. That, in turn, would deprive the authority of the opportunity to use these other issues to bargain for the pension change it sought. Unwilling to give up that leverage, the authority did not want to trigger arbitration.'b"Binding arbitration, therefore, proved toothless -- not because it didn't work, but because both sides were able to duck it. It never had a chance to be tried."b"We were both on Gov. Hugh Carey's staff assigned to deal with New York City's last illegal transit strike, in April 1980. The feeling then was that a future strike was too costly to risk, but that the Taylor Law's penalties and fines did not provide sufficient deterrence. The same convictions are being expressed today."b"In place of punitive measures that don't work, we offer a simple solution: make binding arbitration mandatory, rather than something the parties may choose to initiate at will. Yes, this means changing the Taylor Law yet again, and that is just what we propose. A small change could make a big difference. Here's how our proposal would work:"b'Six weeks before the end of a contract agreement -- or earlier, if a mediator or the Public Employment Relations Board so orders -- binding arbitration would be invoked automatically. A panel would be selected using the same criteria as today, and arbitration would begin two weeks later. Using the same decision-making criteria as under the existing law, the panel would issue its decision by the expiration date of the agreement. Of course, the parties could reach a voluntary agreement on all or some of the issues before the expiration of the agreement.'b"As is the case now, the panel's decision would be binding on both parties, and either party could enforce the decision in court if the other side resisted implementation."b'Such a change would make a strike unnecessary, because a contract would be in place by the expiration of the existing agreement, whether reached through negotiation or imposed by neutral arbitrators. The change would also ensure that public service employees who provide vital services, in return for accepting that they may not strike, will get a resolution process that allows for a full hearing and a fair judgment of their case.'b"Op-Ed Contributors Meyer S. Frucher, the chairman of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, was director of the Governor's Office of Employee Relations for New York State from 1978 to 1983. Joseph M. Bress held the same position from 1990 to 1994 and is now vice president for labor relations of Amtrak."b"I have learned enough about farming -- or at least living on a farm -- over the past eight years to begin to understand the wisdom of the old farmers I know. They are wise because everything has already happened to them. The barn has burned down. The cows have trampled the cornfield. A finger has vanished into the combine. The soybean market has gone south. If the very worst hasn't happened to one farmer, it has happened to the neighbor down the road. A lot of the surprise has gone out of life. One of the reasons farmers like talking to my wife, Lindy, and me is that they can see that we still have plenty of surprise left in us."b'I have one basic anxiety about living on a farm. In my worst nightmare, all of the animals escape at once, and they are all tangled in the fence and are rolling in a ball down the highway. So I will just say that the other day Magnus, our 300-pound Tamworth boar, got out. I looked out the attic window, and Magnus was loping after the horses in the big pasture. This is one of those spots where a book like "Five Acres and Independence" really lets you down.'b"It was really the horses who got Magnus back into his pen. They can be histrionic at the most inopportune moments, but that afternoon they were creatures of good sense. Remedy, the retired cutting horse, cut left and right, agile as a cat, flaring and snorting, to keep Magnus at bay. Nell, who is a Nevada mustang and to whom Magnus was chiefly attracted, showed us what it meant to have been raised in the wild. And Ida, who is a glutton, led us all back into Magnus's pen, where there was a heap of grain on the ground. Lindy and I shut one gate behind us, opened another to let the horses out, and there we were. Order restored."b"We now give the horses their hay in the morning beside Magnus's pen. We throw some to Magnus so he can pretend to be one of the horses. A quiet companionship has sprung up among them. Lindy says she saw Magnus batting his eyes at Nell. But when he raises his snout and starts snuffing the air, what he is smelling is his two prospective brides, who are living down by the barn, awaiting their nuptials. Their names are Suzanne and Cheryl."b'While I was doing the chores that night, I kept hearing in my head Wordsworth\'s phrase about "emotion recollected in tranquillity." That is the wisdom of old farmers. All the whooping and cursing has died away, and the gates are latched and the lights are off, and Magnus, who is as tame as tame can be, has bedded down in his hut full of hay, wondering, as I do, just what it was that happened that afternoon.   VERLYN KLINKENBORG'b"There is no shortage of numbers and studies detailing the widening gap between what American companies pay workers and the millions of dollars those same companies pay top executives. But just in case anyone hasn't been paying attention, here enters David Brooks, chief executive of the bulletproof vest manufacturer DHB Industries Inc., to provide a fuller picture."b'Mr. Brooks has made hundreds of millions of dollars through the company, principally from federal and municipal contracts for bulletproof vests. But while 18,000 of those vests were being recalled by the United States military, some from Iraq, Mr. Brooks was in the midst of throwing a private party for his daughter and her friends at the Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center.'b"The bash was headlined by a list of performers that could easily have carried the Super Bowl halftime extravaganza. The superstar rapper 50 Cent and the front men from the rock group Aerosmith were among the night's many performers. According to The Daily News in New York, the party's estimated $10 million price tag -- a figure Mr. Brooks albeit called greatly exaggerated -- culminated with guests reportedly walking out carrying gift bags valued at $1,000 each, stocked with digital cameras and video iPods."b'Mr. Brooks is free to spend his money as he pleases, but he might have thought better than to draw added attention to his company right now. The November recall of the vests was the second by the military in 2005. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating the company and Mr. Brooks. And the company is also the target of several shareholder lawsuits after a material in some of its body armor failed a federal safety test.'b'Meanwhile, the party came less than three months after the release of a report on ballooning pay for chief executives that singled out Mr. Brooks for making $70 million in 2004 compared with $525,000 in pre-Iraq-war 2001. The report said he made an additional $186 million in 2004 selling company stock.'b"The same report, by the Institute for Policy Studies, a left-leaning research center, and United for a Fair Economy, a group seeking to narrow the gap between rich and poor, found that in 2004 the ratio of C.E.O. pay to worker pay at large companies had ballooned to 431 to 1. If the minimum wage had advanced at the same rate as chief executive compensation since 1990, America's bottom-of-the-barrel working poor would be enjoying salad days, with legal wages at $23.03 an hour instead of $5.15."b'In the go-go days of the Internet bubble, these kinds of statistics were easy to ignore because it felt as if anyone could be the next millionaire and surely the rising tide would lift all boats. Now corporate profits are being wrung in large part from cost cutting like reductions to worker health care and retirement, layoffs and plant closings.'b"It would be nice to see corporate America put more effort -- and money -- into quality control and fair living wages for workers and less into exorbitant pay packages and bonuses for corporate chieftains. We remain hopeful, although we can't help but think that while the average American will read about Mr. Brooks's war-windfall party at the Rainbow Room and feel queasy, someone in the ranks of the super-rich might take it as a challenge and check to see if the Taj Mahal is available for birthday parties."b"The federal minimum wage has been a paltry $5.15 an hour for more than eight years. Polls show that there is strong popular support for raising it, but Congress has resisted. Unions, community groups and advocates for the poor are increasingly taking the matter directly to voters through state referendums to raise their states' minimum wages, according to an article yesterday in The Times. Their intentions are laudable, but the efforts only highlight Congress's failure to set the federal minimum wage at a reasonable level."b"The federal minimum wage got its start in 1938, when the Fair Labor Standards Act required the employers it covered to pay workers at least 25 cents an hour. Because the law is not indexed for inflation, Congress has to pass legislation to increase the minimum wage. Its record of doing this is disappointing. The last time the minimum rose was in September 1997. Since then, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the minimum wage's purchasing power has fallen more than 15 percent. It is now less than one-third of the average wage for private nonsupervisory workers -- the lowest percentage in 56 years."b'Keeping the minimum wage at a reasonable level has appeal across the political spectrum. Liberals see a higher minimum wage as a way to lift the working poor out of poverty and narrow the gap between rich and poor. Many conservatives see it as a way to reward work. In a 2005 Pew Research Center poll, 86 percent of respondents, including 79 percent of social conservatives, supported increasing the minimum wage to $6.45 an hour.'b'But the idea has some influential opponents. Business interests, led by the restaurant industry, have lobbied to keep the minimum wage low. Some free-market conservatives, heirs to the original opponents of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, oppose it on ideological grounds. In recent years, these forces have prevailed. The same Congress that has passed huge tax cuts for wealthy individuals and corporations has consistently refused to help those on the other side of the economic divide.'b"In 2004, supporters of a higher minimum wage had impressive success in statewide votes. In Florida and Nevada -- both states that went for President Bush -- voters passed referendums to increase their states' minimum wage laws by margins of roughly 70 to 30 percent. This year, there may be ballot initiatives in seven states, including Ohio and Michigan (and Nevada will vote again). Some political analysts say the initiatives could help Democratic Congressional candidates by drawing low-income voters to the polls, just as referendums in 2004 to oppose gay marriage helped the turnout of Republican-leaning voters who are religious conservatives."b'State minimum-wage referendums are not ideal. Policy matters of this kind are best handled by legislatures, and the nation would be better off with a uniform federal standard. But given where the federal minimum wage now stands, state-level initiatives are the only game in town. Those grass-roots debates may shame Congress into taking long-overdue action to help the lowest-paid workers.'b"Los Angeles - MONEY is the mother's milk of disaster relief. And over the last 12 months -- with the Indian Ocean tsunami, the hurricanes on the Gulf Coast and the Pakistan earthquake -- fund-raising records have been broken by the King Kong of relief agencies, the American Red Cross, and by many smaller organizations as well."b"While much of this money goes to worthy rescue and rebuilding projects, most Americans are unaware that a shocking amount never ends up helping the people it was intended for. In some cases, agencies take in so much aid that they simply cannot spend it all on one disaster. Sometimes the newly flush groups do little because they have no significant history of working in the stricken area or no experience dealing with a particular type of disaster. Worse, some agencies use the money to push agendas that have little to do with victims' immediate needs."b'In late November it was reported that the American Red Cross still had $400 million of the $567 million it had collected for the tsunami since Dec. 26, 2004. Meanwhile, many of the countries hit by the waves, all of which have their own national Red Cross or Red Crescent societies, continue to beg for more help with housing, health and education programs.'b'Why our Red Cross holds on to so much money is a mystery, but it is hardly the only agency that does so. A survey by InterAction, an umbrella group of relief agencies, found that many other charities reported spending far less than they took in last year; an average of just 42 percent of the money received by 62 relief groups providing tsunami relief has been spent.'b'As for the Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the American Red Cross says it has spent more than $1 billion aiding Gulf Coast residents. This may be true, but consider the circumstances. The group used all-encompassing media promotion, drop-off donation boxes and its favorable status with the White House and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to take in more than two-thirds of donations from the American public -- some $1.8 billion dollars. Other agencies, many of which were better suited to aspects of the rescue and recovery, went begging.'b'So it is truly disturbing that the American Red Cross is borrowing $340 million against a $1 billion line of credit to keep operations going on the Gulf Coast -- a line of credit it could hardly hope to secure without its large bank balances, its real estate holdings and the expected influx of government money reimbursing it for parts of its role as a first responder in disasters declared by FEMA.'b'Fortunately, some have taken notice. Representative Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, the ranking Democrat on the Homeland Security Committee, issued a report accusing the Red Cross of having "pulled the wool over our eyes" and calling for increased Congressional oversight of its fund-raising and operations. (The indictment last month in California of at least 14 Red Cross contract workers on fraud charges did not help the group\'s reputation either.)'b"To be fair, the Red Cross is generally intent on giving base necessities to victims, whereas other groups seem more intent on aggrandizing themselves and pushing their ideologies. For example, any number of agencies led by television evangelists -- such as Pat Robertson's Operation Blessing, Larry Jones's Feed the Children and Franklin Graham's Samaritan's Purse -- along with religious groups like the Church of Scientology and the mystical Kabbalah Center, are even more aggressive in fund-raising."b"Of course, just because a group has religious affiliations doesn't mean its workers can't provide immediate aid, or that religious succor won't help victims. But do we really think that many of these groups' deliveries of prayer scrolls and holy water (favorites of the Kabbalah group), proselytizing missionaries and used clothing saved or improved many shattered lives?"b"It is not the act of a cynic to question whether too much money flows to too few charities with the means to conduct pervasive fund-raising campaigns. Last year's disasters showed that billions of dollars in American generosity does not necessarily mean adequate help for those in need."b"So, for Americans who want their dollars to do the most good in the immediate aftermath of a tragedy, what to do? For starters, the same Internet that helps raise such large amounts of money can help compassionate Americans give wisely. A subtle reading of a charity's Web site can pay off, charity rating services can be consulted for basic financial data, and Google searches can turn up news reports of a charity's misdeeds. In addition, InterAction (of which my organization is a member) and other nonprofit groups have developed standards and ethics guidelines that may help potential donors."b"As for government help, only a few states, including New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut, carefully regulate charities. Perhaps with its investigation of the Red Cross's response to Hurricane Katrina, Congress will seriously question the structure of government-led disaster relief programs. (Previous efforts by Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to strengthen oversight of nonprofit groups have been stymied.)"b'With the incendiary combination of huge government contracts, Internet fund-raising and appeals based on mass disasters, the charity business has entered a new age. Americans should continue to help those in dire need, but they should also look around before sending a check or clicking the "donate" button.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Richard M. Walden is president of Operation USA, an international relief agency.'b'Calling North Korea nasty names is easy and satisfying. Negotiating is hard and frustrating. So for four years, the Bush administration put more creative energy into name-calling than into serious talks. The main result was that the North moved four years further along toward being able to threaten its neighbors with nuclear weapons.'b'Then last summer, Washington toned down its language and tried the harder road of diplomacy. The result, in September, was a breakthrough accord in which North Korea committed itself in principle to dismantling its nuclear weapons programs, returning to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and admitting international nuclear inspectors. It was a deservedly proud moment for Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her top Asian deputy, Christopher Hill, whose toughness and diplomatic professionalism helped secure acceptable terms.'b'Unfortunately, things have been going downhill ever since, and both sides are to blame.'b'North Korea landed the first blow 24 hours after the deal was announced by claiming the right to acquire a civilian power reactor even before it dismantled its nuclear weapons programs. The next month, Washington imposed new sanctions under the Patriot Act against North Korean companies it said had been involved in money laundering and counterfeiting -- a perfectly legitimate step if the charges are accurate -- and then declined to negotiate with North Korea about lifting those sanctions.'b'North Korea struck back by boycotting the next round of the nuclear talks and complaining that its concessions on nuclear weapons had been poorly rewarded. Then Washington matched that show of childish petulance by getting back into the name-calling game, with the new American ambassador to South Korea labeling the North a "criminal regime." That may be accurate, but it is not the sort of thing diplomats say publicly when their countries are engaged in delicate diplomacy. The ambassador\'s remarks also went down badly with his South Korean hosts, whose top priority is encouraging North-South dialogue.'b'The North can afford to take its time over resolving the nuclear issue, wasting diplomatic energy on disruptive and bullying tactics. The United States cannot afford that luxury. It makes little sense for the Bush administration to return to name-calling or to rule out high-level talks on the Patriot Act sanctions.'b"The window that briefly opened for diplomacy after John Bolton moved from nonproliferation issues to the United Nations is once again in danger of being slammed shut, reportedly at the urging of Vice President Dick Cheney and Mr. Bolton's successor in the nonproliferation job, Robert Joseph. The United States is said to believe that its new hard line will give it more leverage if and when nuclear talks resume. Instead, those talks are once again grinding toward an indefinite stalemate."b"That's not just disappointing. It is extremely dangerous. No one disputes that North Korea is unpredictable. No one disputes that it has the means to build nuclear weapons. The world cannot afford to let the chance of holding the North to its September promise be lost in the shouting."b'When Samuel Alito Jr. applied for a top job in the Reagan Justice Department, he explained what had attracted him to constitutional law as a college student. He was motivated, he said, "in large part by disagreement with Warren Court decisions, particularly in the areas of criminal procedure, the Establishment Clause, and reapportionment." The reapportionment cases that so upset young Mr. Alito were a series of landmark decisions that established a principle that is now a cornerstone of American democracy: one person one vote.'b"There has been a lot of talk about the abortion views of Judge Alito, President Bush's Supreme Court nominee. But his views on the redistricting cases may be more important. Senator Joseph Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who will be one of those doing the questioning when confirmation hearings begin next week, said recently that Judge Alito's statements about one person one vote could do more to jeopardize his nomination than his statements about Roe v. Wade."b'Rejecting the one-person-one-vote principle is a radical position. If Judge Alito still holds this view today, he could lead the court to accept a very different vision of American democracy, one in which it would be far easier for powerful special interests to get a stranglehold on government.'b'Even if Judge Alito has changed his position on the reapportionment cases, the fact that he was drawn to constitutional law because of his opposition to those rulings raises serious questions about his views on democracy and equality.'b"The one-person-one-vote principle traces to the Supreme Court's 1962 decision in Baker v. Carr. At the time, legislative districts had wildly unequal numbers of people, and representatives from underpopulated rural districts controlled many state legislatures. In Maryland, 14 percent of the voters could elect a majority of the State Senate, and 25 percent could elect a majority of the State House. In Alabama, the county that includes Birmingham, which had 600,000 people, got the same number of state senators -- one -- as a county with barely 15,000 people."b'In Baker v. Carr, Tennessee voters challenged their state\'s unequal legislative districts, which had not been redrawn in 60 years. The Supreme Court had rejected a similar claim out of Illinois in 1946, saying it did not want to enter the "political thicket." But in 1962, the Warren court decided it had to enter the thicket to vindicate the rights of Tennesseans whose votes were being unfairly diluted. It ordered Tennessee\'s lines redrawn.'b"Two years later, in Reynolds v. Sims, the court struck down Alabama's legislative districts. The Reynolds decision did what Baker had not: it established a clear mathematical standard."b'The court held that the equal protection clause required that "as nearly as is practicable one man\'s vote" must "be worth as much as another\'s."'b'Baker v. Carr set off what a leading election law treatise calls "the reapportionment revolution." In nine months, lawsuits challenging district lines were filed in 34 states. They did not solve all the problems with legislative districts -- the current court is still wrestling with partisan gerrymandering -- but they made American democracy much fairer.'b'As a Princeton undergraduate, Samuel Alito sided with Tennessee and Alabama in the reapportionment cases. What is unclear -- and what senators will no doubt try to pin down -- is whether he ever changed his mind. He cited his opposition to the reapportionment cases, apparently as a point of pride, in his application for the Reagan Justice Department job in 1985, when he was 35 years old and a midcareer lawyer.'b"Baker and Reynolds seem so self-evidently correct today that it is hard to imagine that Judge Alito could still really oppose them. But there is a strong strand of antidemocratic thinking among far-right lawyers. Jay Bybee, who helped develop the Bush administration's pro-torture policy and is now a federal judge, has criticized the 17th Amendment, which requires that United States senators be elected by the people, instead of by state legislatures, as they once were. And an American Enterprise Institute scholar, writing in The Washington Times, recently defended Judge Alito by suggesting that Baker v. Carr was wrong."b"If Judge Alito was able to forge a conservative Supreme Court majority to overturn the reapportionment cases, the results would be disastrous. The next Tom DeLay-style redistricting in Texas could conceivably stuff most of the state's Democratic voters into two or three multimillion-person Congressional districts, while reserving the state's remaining 30 or so seats for Republicans. Small claques could control entire state governments -- as they did until 1962."b'Whatever the chances of overturning the reapportionment cases, the Senate should ask Judge Alito what he so disliked about them. The idea that reapportionment is territory the court cannot enter was long ago rejected by the legal mainstream. Baker v. Carr and Reynolds v. Sims may have been "activist" rulings, but for the most justifiable reason: to ensure that the democratic process is not rigged to thwart the will of the majority.'b'Judge Alito has himself espoused more activist views, notably his legally dubious vote to overturn a Congressional ban on machine guns. One possibility is that Judge Alito, who was a member of an alumni group that opposed coeducation and affirmative action at Princeton, is at heart an elitist who believes the reapportionment cases simply made the country too democratic.'b"Judge Alito will most likely insist at his hearings that he feels bound by Baker v. Carr and Reynolds v. Sims. Even if he can be trusted, it will say a great deal about him if he supports one person one vote only because he believes that respect for precedent, or confirmation politics, requires it. Most Americans know, based on their innate sense of justice and the Constitution, why the pre-1960's way of electing legislators was not acceptable then and is not now."b'Washington - THE rise in fuel prices that followed Hurricanes Katrina and Rita has prompted many members of Congress to call for new and expanded federal reserves of crude oil, diesel fuel, home heating oil, jet fuel and propane. Proponents of stockpiling claim that if the government were to hoard those commodities when prices were low, it could unleash them on the market when supplies are tight, thus dampening price increases and stabilizing the market.'b"But the experience in this country with the strategic petroleum reserve strongly suggests that such government-managed stockpiles are a waste of taxpayers' money. Rather than increasing the stockpile, the reserve should be emptied and closed."b"Public stockpiles are far more expensive to maintain than many analysts realize. For example, after adjusting for inflation, the petroleum reserve has cost federal taxpayers as much as $51 billion since it was created in 1975. If you divide that sum by the amount of oil in the reserve, that's $80 per barrel by the end of 2003."b"Of course, even at that price, some would argue that the reserve is still worthwhile under certain circumstances. That's because many economists maintain that it's not the cost of oil that harms the economy during a price spike, but the microeconomic uncertainty caused by supply disruptions, the costs of adjusting to high prices and the political reaction to soaring energy prices. If large volumes of federal oil were released at the early stage of a supply shock, it could temper those effects."b'But the government has never employed the reserve in this manner and probably never will. Politicians are simply too loath to risk a premature release of public crude because one can never know how long a supply disruption might last, how high prices might climb or whether additional disruptions are on the horizon.'b"In its 30-year history, the 700-million-barrel reserve, which was recently authorized by Congress to expand to 1 billion barrels, has been tapped only three major times: 21 million barrels were released at the onset of the Persian Gulf war in the early 1990's, 30 million barrels in September 2000 and 24 million barrels last year after Hurricane Katrina struck. Those releases were so small considering the size of the reserve that one wonders why politicians are so dead set on having a billion barrels."b'Another reason for the reluctance to tap the reserve is the widespread belief that it should be maintained as a hedge against an embargo like the one America experienced in 1973. But embargoes are not the powerful "oil weapon" that people think they are. Once a producer sells its oil on the world market, that oil can be bought, sold and rerouted repeatedly. The producer cannot control the oil\'s ultimate destination. The globalization of oil markets ensures that the United States will always have access to Persian Gulf oil whether OPEC members like it or not.'b'But what if, instead of an embargo, there was a catastrophic disruption in supply, say the kind that might occur were Al Qaeda to seize power in Saudi Arabia? That scenario is worrisome, but the reserve would not be able to do much. No public stockpile would ever be large enough to deal with such a huge disruption. For instance, even if all of the oil in the reserve were released in 2004, it would have amounted to only 2.6 percent of the world supply -- nowhere near enough to replace the oil from a major producer on a sustained basis. Building a reserve large enough to replace Saudi production would prove outrageously expensive.'b"Fortunately, it is highly unlikely that political motivations would lead an oil producing state to cut its production so drastically. Those nations need oil money as much or more than oil-consuming nations need the oil. Even anti-American regimes like Iran's and Venezuela's have no interest in economic suicide by suspending oil production."b'Regardless, getting rid of the public petroleum reserve would not mean destroying all oil reserves. Private oil inventories are three times larger than public inventories and would be even larger if investors didn\'t have to worry about the government flooding the market with public oil during a price spike. Inventories, after all, are costly to maintain and will only be profitable if market actors can "sell high" during a price increase.'b"In fact, economists agree that every barrel of oil we put in the public reserve displaces oil that might otherwise have gone into private inventories. How much displacement occurs is unclear, but there is little doubt that it's significant."b'If the reserve is thought of as an insurance policy against high prices, the cost of the policy has been more expensive than the dangers the stockpile is meant to prevent. Americans should resist the drive to expand public stockpiles. Instead, we should sell while the selling is good.'b'Op-Ed Contributors Jerry Taylor and Peter Van Doren are senior fellows at the Cato Institute.'b"Cambridge, Mass. - JUDGE Samuel A. Alito Jr.'s opponents have seized upon two memorandums he wrote when he was a junior lawyer in the office of the solicitor general: one on the Thornburgh case, which dealt with Roe v. Wade, and the other on Mitchell v. Forsyth, which addressed the attorney general's personal liability for wiretaps found to violate the Constitution."b"Determined to fit the man to the Scalito caricature with which they hope to defeat his nomination to the Supreme Court, Judge Alito's detractors ignore the context and the content of both documents."b'First the context. These were not the writings of a political operative seeking to make trouble or advance an agenda. The solicitor general takes a case to the Supreme Court only when some other part of the government -- perhaps a division of the Department of Justice or another agency -- recommends it.'b"In these instances, assistant attorneys general, presidential appointees and members of the attorney general's staff had formally recommended that the solicitor general argue to the Supreme Court in one case that Roe v. Wade be overturned, and in the other that the attorney general be granted absolute immunity from personal suits for his official actions."b'As in every case, a junior staff member was assigned to analyze these recommendations and propose a course of action to the solicitor general. It fell to Judge Alito to write those memos.'b"Now the content. What is remarkable in both cases is that Judge Alito recommended against taking the position that more senior, politically appointed officials were urging the solicitor general to take before the court. In the abortion case, not only the head of the civil division but also other high-ranking officials were urging that I, as the solicitor general at the time, ask the court to overturn Roe v. Wade. The bottom line of Judge Alito's memo was that I should not do that."b"Judge Alito did note that the lower courts' decisions in Thornburgh were highly irregular on technical, procedural grounds (a position with which Justice Sandra Day O'Connor agreed, in her dissent when Thornburgh reached the Supreme Court), and that Roe might well be modified -- as it has been -- in less radical ways over the years."b"More context. My predecessor, Rex Lee, had been criticized within the Reagan administration for not directly opposing Roe, given that the department had more or less officially assumed the position that the case had been wrongly decided. At the time, this was hardly a radical stance. Mainstream legal thinkers, including the Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox and John Hart Ely, the dean of Stanford Law School, espoused it. And Judge Alito's memo made clear that he agreed. But Mr. Lee's critics claimed that the solicitor general too readily followed the advice of career lawyers on his staff, many of whom were hostile to the Reagan agenda, especially on Roe, and used highly technical arguments to undermine it."b"It is hardly surprising, then, that Judge Alito took pains to deny any personal hostility to a project that he was recommending should be once again postponed. In the event, I did not follow Judge Alito's advice and instead asked that Roe be reconsidered and overturned because I thought the administration had the right to have its position put before the Supreme Court in a forthright but professionally correct way. Judge Alito in his memo correctly predicted that the court would react with hostility to the administration's argument."b"Judge Alito's wiretap memorandum was if anything an even clearer example of a career lawyer doing his job properly and dispassionately. The solicitor general in that case represented not only the Department of Justice and its prerogatives but also the attorney general, who the lower court had ordered to pay damages out of his own pocket for a wiretap that was found to be illegal. The attorney general asked the solicitor general (at that time, Mr. Lee) to argue for immunity from personal liability in such a suit."b"Judge Alito recommended that the solicitor general not take this case to the Supreme Court because he thought it was a sure loser. It is hardly surprising that Judge Alito, like many lawyers delivering bad news to a client, expressed sympathy for the client's position. But the bottom line was just what Judge Alito's higher-ups did not want to hear. And here, too, the solicitor general did not take Judge Alito's advice -- which once again, in the end, proved right."b'What these episodes illustrate is a man who is not a lawless zealot but a careful lawyer with the professionalism to give legally sound but unwelcome advice. They also show a person who can tell the difference between the law and his own political predilections.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Charles Fried, a law professor at Harvard, was solicitor general of the United States from 1985 to 1989.'b"SNELLVILLE, Ga. - LAST month I happened to go into the Borders Books store at the Stonecrest mall in Lithonia, Ga., about a half-hour from my house here. To my surprise, it had one of the largest collections of books by black authors that I've ever seen outside an independent black bookstore, rows and rows of bookcases. This is the sort of discovery that makes the pulse quicken, evidence of a population I've spent most of my professional life seeking: African-American readers. What a thrill to have so much space in a major chain store devoted to this country's black writers."b'With an extra spring in my step, I walked into the "African-American Literature" section -- and what I saw there thoroughly embarrassed and disgusted me.'b'On shelf after shelf, in bookcase after bookcase, all that I could see was lurid book jackets displaying all forms of brown flesh, usually half-naked and in some erotic pose, often accompanied by guns and other symbols of criminal life. I felt as if I was walking into a pornography shop, except in this case the smut is being produced by and for my people, and it is called "literature."'b'As a black author, I had certainly become familiar with the sexualization and degradation of black fiction. Over the last several years, I had watched the shelves of black bookstores around the country and the tables of street vendors, particularly in New York City, become overrun with novels that seemed to appeal exclusively to our most prurient natures -- as if these nasty books were pairing off back in the stockrooms like little paperback rabbits and churning out even more graphic offspring that make Ralph Ellison books cringe into a dusty corner.'b"Early last year I walked into a B. Dalton bookstore in a New Jersey mall where the manager had always proudly told me how well my books were selling. This time, I was introduced to a new manager who was just as proud to show me an enhanced black books section teeming with this new black erotica. I've also noticed much more of this oversexed genre in Barnes &amp; Noble bookstores over the past few months, although it's harder to see there since the chain doesn't appear to have separate black fiction sections."b'But up until that visit to Borders in Lithonia, I had thought this mostly a phenomenon of the black retail world, where the black bookstore owners and street vendors say they have to stock what sells, and increasingly what sells are stories that glorify and glamorize black criminals. The genre has been described by different names; "ghetto fiction" and "street lit" are two I\'ve heard most often. Apparently, what we are now seeing is the crossover of this genre to mainstream bookstores.'b'But the placard above this section of Borders in Lithonia didn\'t say "Street Lit," it said "African-American Literature." We were all represented under that placard, the whole community of black authors -- from me to Terry McMillan and Toni Morrison, from Yolanda Joe and Benilde Little to Edward P. Jones and Kuwana Haulsey -- surrounded and swallowed whole on the shelves by an overwhelming wave of titles and jackets that I wouldn\'t want my 13-year-old son to see: "Hustlin\' Backwards." "Legit Baller." "A Hustler\'s Wife." "Chocolate Flava."'b"I've heard defenders say that the main buyers of these books, young black women, have simply found something that speaks to them, and that it's great that they're reading something. I'd agree if these books were a starting point, and that readers ultimately turned to works inspired by the best that's in us, not the worst."b'But we\'re not seeing evidence of that. On Essence magazine\'s list of best sellers at black bookstores, for example, authors of street lit now dominate, driving out serious writers. Under the heading "African-American Literature," what\'s available is almost exclusively pornography for black women.'b'As I stood there in Borders, I had two sensations: I was ashamed and mortified to see my books sitting on the same shelves as these titles; and secondly, as someone who makes a living as a writer I felt I had no way to compete with these purveyors of crassness.'b"That leaves me wondering where we -- writers, publishers, readers, the black community -- go from here. Is street fiction some passing fad, or does it represent our future? It's depressing that this noble profession, one that I aspired to as a child from the moment I first cracked open James Baldwin and Gabriel Garc\xc3\xada M\xc3\xa1rquez about 30 years ago, has been reduced by the greed of the publishing industry and the ways of the American marketplace to a tasteless collection of pornography."b'I realize that publishing is a business, but publishers also have a responsibility to balance street lit with more quality writing. After all, how are we going to explain ourselves to the next generation of writers and readers who will wonder why they have so little to read of import and value produced in the early 21st century, why their founts of inspiration are so parched?'b'At times, I push myself away from the computer in anger. I don\'t want to compete with "Legit Baller." But then I come across something like "The Known World" by Edward P. Jones and again I am inspired.'b'But I must say that I retain very little of the hope and excitement and enthusiasm that I had when my first book was published eight years ago. I feel defeated, disrespected and troubled about the future of my community and my little subsection of this carnivorous, unforgiving industry.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Nick Chiles, the editor in chief of Odyssey Couleur magazine, is the co-author, with Denene Millner, of "A Love Story."'b'The Homeland Security Department announced this week that it intended to rely more on the risk of a terrorist attack, and less on politics, when it hands out funds under a key antiterrorism program. This is very good news -- with two caveats. It still remains to be seen precisely how the money will be handed out. And the improvements in this single program do not change the fact that Congress, thanks to the influence of small-state senators, still lets politics play a disturbingly large role in the distribution of other antiterrorism funds.'b'National security experts, including the 9/11 commission, overwhelmingly agree that antiterrorism money should be handed out based on the risk of an attack and the harm it would do. But members of Congress have trouble seeing any program -- even one designed to protect the nation from terrorists -- as above politics and patronage.'b'Senators from small low-risk states, led by Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, scored an unfortunate victory last year when they blocked an amendment, backed by all six senators from New York, California and Texas, that would have distributed more antiterrorism money on the basis of risk. As a result, states like Wyoming -- and Maine -- still get too much money, and places like New York City and Washington, D.C., get too little.'b"Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has, to his credit, been a consistent supporter of an approach based more on risk. In this week's announcement, he promised to rely more heavily on risk in making decisions on allocating $765 million under the Urban Area Security Initiative. There are, however, several factors that may interfere with his good intentions. The department intends to take into account the degree to which a grant could be used to help with disasters not related to terrorism, like hurricanes or pandemics. This could blur the program's focus and end up directing more money toward places that face nonterrorist threats, an outcome that was not Congress's intention."b"It is also possible that when financing proposals are actually evaluated later this year, Mr. Chertoff's emphasis on risk will become lost in an array of other criteria."b"Whatever success Mr. Chertoff has in improving this program, two others are still badly in need of a similar reorientation toward risk and away from politics: the State Homeland Security Grant Program and the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, which account for much of the nation's antiterrorism spending."b"Mr. Chertoff's emphasis on risk is the right one. We hope that the Homeland Security Department sticks to this principle when it makes its final grant decisions under the Urban Area Security Initiative later this year. And we hope that when Congress passes the next Homeland Security appropriation covering the other antiterrorism programs, it does a better job of putting risk ahead of politics."b"If President Vladimir Putin wants to convince the world that Russia is a more reliable energy supplier than the Middle East, playing and losing a game of chicken with Ukraine was not the way to go. Mr. Putin tried to use a pricing dispute between Gazprom, Russia's behemoth, and Naftogaz of Ukraine to punish President Viktor Yushchenko for Ukraine's westward leanings. Instead, he gave Russia another black eye and antagonized Europe."b"When Gazprom turned down the natural gas spigot a notch, Ukraine simply took what it needed, leaving Europe short of fuel, furious and anxious. That's not a great start for Mr. Putin's turn at the head of the Group of 8, especially since energy security was to be his theme song."b"Not that the conflict reflects that well on Ukraine. Russia has long charged wildly different rates to former Soviet republics, depending on their degree of loyalty or usefulness. Thus Belarus, which ceded control of all its pipelines to Russia and is firmly in the Kremlin's orbit, pays $47 per 1,000 cubic meters, while Estonia and Latvia, both in the European Union and NATO, pay about $120. The average price in Western Europe is expected to go over $250 this year. Ukraine had been paying $50, and using the energy wastefully and corruptly. Mr. Yushchenko has also been using cheap fuel as a lure for Western investors. Well, if Ukraine wants to play in the West, it may soon have to pay like the West."b"Russia is still a more secure energy supplier than the Middle East. But Europe and the United States should remind Mr. Putin that energy security is a two-way street. Ukraine has no permanent right to a gas subsidy, but as long as Mr. Putin uses pricing to reward and punish, he undermines Russia's claim to be a reliable, businesslike supplier."b'IN recent years, one of the toughest turnaround jobs in American industry has been the effort to change the perception of coal from an industrial relic of 19th century to an energy source for the 21st century. The high-water mark of this makeover campaign may well have come last spring, when General Electric began its "ecomagination" advertising campaign touting its new clean coal technology. One ad featured glamorous, scantily clad models (male and female) shoveling coal in a dark mine while Tennessee Ernie Ford\'s version of "16 Tons," the great song about hard labor and corporate exploitation, played on the soundtrack. Near the end of the ad, a voice announced, "Harnessing the power of coal is looking more beautiful every day."'b'But there is nothing pretty about coal, as we have been grimly reminded by the plight of the 13 coal miners trapped by a mine collapse near Tallmansville, W.V. The American Lung Association estimates that 24,000 people die prematurely each year from power-plant pollution. In Appalachia, mountaintop removal mining -- a method of mining in which the mountain is removed from the coal, rather than the coal removed from the mountain -- has flattened some 380,000 acres in the region and destroyed more than 700 miles of streams.'b"Coal plants generate more than 130 million tons a year of combustion waste -- fly ash, bottom ash, scrubber sludge -- that is laced with toxic metals like arsenic and mercury and pumped into holding ponds and abandoned mines, where it can sometimes leak into aquifers and drinking water. Most important, coal plants are responsible for nearly 40 percent of the carbon dioxide released in the United States, meaning that if we're going to get a handle on global warming, we'll have to get a handle on coal."b'Still, in recent years -- thanks in part to skyrocketing natural gas prices, worries about dwindling oil supplies, regulatory rollbacks of the Bush administration -- coal has become sexy. And it indeed has many virtues.'b'Coal is cheap and plentiful. Right now, more than half the electricity generated in America is produced with coal. America is often called "the Saudi Arabia of coal," with enough to last us for 250 years. Improvements in emission controls make new coal plants much cleaner than the old coal burners; 120 of these up-to-date plants are in the works right now. New technology allows coal to be liquefied into diesel, a possible substitute for oil.'b'There is also a strong cultural connection to the resurgence of coal, particularly in the producing areas: it is a red-state rock, a taking back of America from the silly blue-staters who believed the future would be powered by solar panels and switchgrass. I recently attended a rally for a new coal plant in the Midwest where boosters chanted, "Coal is U.S.A.! Coal is U.S.A.!"'b'Nothing, however, has been more important to the comeback of coal than the purported safety improvements in mining. The coal industry knows that as much as Americans may love a cheap kilowatt, they are not going to support burning coal if it results in people suffering miserable deaths in Appalachian coal mines. The industry works overtime to suggest that coal mining today has nothing in common with its dark and exploitative past. The old days of breaker boys (children who picked rocks out of the coal) and methane explosions are gone, the coal industry argues, and mining today is safe, well paid and professional.'b'Promotional literature published by the National Mining Association and other industry groups usually show miners as clean-faced men in close proximity to high-tech machinery -- computer screens, global positioning systems, bright yellow haul trucks. The average salary of a coal miner, the association says, is $50,000 a year. According to one coal industry Web site, working in a coal mine today is as safe as working in a grocery store.'b"The people in Tallmansville know better. Coal mining remains a dirty and dangerous business, especially in regions of Appalachia where all the easy coal is gone and what's left is increasingly difficult and dangerous to mine. (Coal mining is indeed a fairly safe operation in the big strip mines of Wyoming, where the 70-foot seams of coal lie so close to the surface that, in places, you can practically dig it out with a spoon.)"b'In parts of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Kentucky, some mines are so complex and tight the workers call them "dogholes." Working in an underground mine, especially one owned by a small non-union operator in Appalachia, is one of the few jobs in America that is nearly as dangerous as commercial fishing in Alaska.'b'Not long ago, I spoke with a coal miner who was spending eight hours a day in a coal seam in western Kentucky that was a mere 20 inches high. You can\'t even turn around in a mine like that, have to mine laying on your belly. I asked him how much he earned. "Not enough to buy a new truck," he told me.'b"If coal is indeed going to be taken seriously as a fuel source in the 21st century, it's up to federal and state regulators to make sure that even 20-inch dogholes are safe (and they can be, with the proper technology, worker skills and governmental oversight). A good first step would be to reverse the Bush administration's new privacy rules, which have made it tougher for outsiders to obtain federal inspectors' reports. Even better would be to increase fines and other penalties for operators who break the rules. In many cases the penalties for running a dangerous mine -- the West Virginia mine had 208 federal citations in 2005, up from 68 in 2004 -- amounted to little more than a slap on the wrist."b'In the summer of 2002, outside the Quecreek Mine in Pennsylvania, I watched for three days as heroic men rescued nine co-workers who had been buried alive. There was no talk about the Saudi Arabia of coal there, no easy words about energy independence or the economic virtues of burning coal. Like the families who stood vigil in Tallmansville this week, they were people who understood the real price of cheap power.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Jeff Goodell is the author of the forthcoming "Big Coal: The Dirty Secret Behind America\'s Energy Future."'b"Defying early forecasts of easy confirmation, the Senate recessed for the holidays without approving Ellen Sauerbrey, President Bush's lamentable choice to head an important State Department agency that coordinates emergency relief for refugees of foreign wars, persecution and natural disasters. Her nomination has yet to clear the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, raising at least a glimmer of hope that she may not get the job."b"Like all too many Bush appointees, Ms. Sauerbrey has political connections that seem her most obvious credential. A former Maryland state legislator and a twice-defeated gubernatorial candidate, she served as state chairman of President Bush's 2000 campaign. She is a favorite of Mr. Bush's far-right base, having pursued an anti-abortion and anti-family-planning agenda in her current patronage post as the American representative to the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women."b'Unlike previous appointees to head the State Department agency, the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration, Ms. Sauerbrey has zero experience in emergency management and refugee resettlement. In the wake of the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina by a similarly uncredentialed appointee, Congress has become more sensitive to charges of this kind of cronyism. A few weeks ago, the Foreign Relations Committee bowed to a request from Senator Barbara Boxer and put off its planned vote on Ms. Sauerbrey.'b"Ms. Boxer is not the only committee member concerned by Ms. Sauerbrey's thin r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9 for overseeing a $1 billion bureau with life-and-death responsibilities for helping to set up refugee camps and arranging for adequate food and protection. Senators on both sides of the aisle are troubled, and the nomination's approval by the committee is not the sure thing it once seemed."b"The worry now is that Mr. Bush will bypass the Senate and install Ms. Sauerbrey on his own by using a recess appointment, the same tactic he used to make John Bolton the United States ambassador to the United Nations. The president should do just the opposite. The Senate's delay is a chance for Mr. Bush to rethink Ms. Sauerbrey's elevation and find someone with solid credentials for the refugee job."b"Given the Bush administration's appetite for leak investigations (three are under way), this seems a good moment to try to clear away the fog around this issue."b"A democratic society cannot long survive if whistle-blowers are criminally punished for revealing what those in power don't want the public to know -- especially if it's unethical, illegal or unconstitutional behavior by top officials. Reporters need to be able to protect these sources, regardless of whether the sources are motivated by policy disputes or nagging consciences. This is doubly important with an administration as dedicated as this one is to extreme secrecy."b"The longest-running of the leak cases involves Valerie Wilson, a covert C.I.A. operative whose identity was leaked to the columnist Robert Novak. The question there was whether the White House was using this information in an attempt to silence Mrs. Wilson's husband, a critic of the Iraq invasion, and in doing so violated a federal law against unmasking a covert operative. There is a world of difference between that case and a current one in which the administration is trying to find the sources of a New York Times report that President Bush secretly authorized spying on American citizens without warrants. The spying report was a classic attempt to give the public information it deserves to have. The Valerie Wilson case began with a cynical effort by the administration to deflect public attention from hyped prewar intelligence on Iraq. The leak inquiry in that case ended up targeting the press, and led to the jailing of a Times reporter."b"When the government does not want the public to know what it is doing, it often cites national security as the reason for secrecy. The nation's safety is obviously a most serious issue, but that very fact has caused this administration and many others to use it as a catchall for any matter it wants to keep secret, even if the underlying reason for the secrecy is to prevent embarrassment to the White House. The White House has yet to show that national security was harmed by the report on electronic spying, which did not reveal the existence of such surveillance -- only how it was being done in a way that seems outside the law."b"Leak investigations are often designed to distract the public from the real issues by blaming the messenger. Take the third leak inquiry, into a Washington Post report on secret overseas C.I.A. camps where prisoners are tortured or shipped to other countries for torture. The administration said the reporting had damaged America's image. Actually, the secret detentions and torture did that."b'Illegal spying and torture need to be investigated, not whistle-blowers and newspapers.'b"Normally a governor's State of the State address is a chance to plant legislative seeds. The idea is to be a little upbeat. Thank the troops. Brag about success. Share some glory. But for Gov. George Pataki of New York, and perhaps for several other governors, this year's opening homilies are rehearsals of sorts for the presidential primary campaign that officially begins in 2008."b"Mr. Pataki presented himself in a surprisingly straightforward way as a moderate Republican. There was no pandering to the capital punishment crowd. No mention of abortion or gun control. Instead, he refined his place as the Republican green candidate. It's a lonely position, but Mr. Pataki might have considered that to have any chance in the big leagues, he will have to wave his strong record on the environment like a regimental flag."b"Yesterday's speech featured proposals on developing cleaner, renewable energy sources to help decrease dependency on foreign oil. His plan to provide refineries to make ethanol won't hurt him with Midwestern farmers. But there was also a promise of more clean-coal power plants and development of hybrid vehicles, including ones that would run on biofuels. Mr. Pataki even promised to make renewable fuels available, tax-free, across the state. And the governor reaffirmed his support for the Northeast regional greenhouse gas emissions pact, which has already drawn fire from people in his own party."b'His 12th, and presumably last, State of the State address made it clear, once again, that Mr. Pataki is no orator. With a kind of breathless urgency that makes even his most passionate ideas sound a little forced, he laid out his philosophy for an "active but limited government." He promised to propose tougher anticrime legislation, more tax cuts and more high-tech jobs -- all standard Republican fare. But he also said that to compete globally, the state would have to reform its education system, partly by giving more money to high-needs schools in New York City and statewide. It was a nod to one of the largest problems facing the Legislature, how to satisfy a court ruling to add billions of state dollars to New York City\'s school system.'b"If this was indeed one of Mr. Pataki's first speeches as a presidential contender, he made it clear that he would play to the middle. In New York, at least, that's a good place for a Republican to be."b'Williamstown, Mass. - AS George W. Bush\'s leadership flounders a little more than a year after his re-election, we are seeing a return of an old affliction in American politics, "second termitis." The protracted woes of Richard Nixon\'s Watergate, Ronald Reagan\'s Iran-contra affair, and Bill Clinton\'s impeachment were all, in part, manifestations of that malady.'b'Is there some human failing that affects second-term presidents, like arrogance or sheer fatigue? To some degree, perhaps. But the main problem is not personal but institutional -- or rather constitutional, as embodied by the 22nd Amendment limiting presidential tenure.'b'A second-term president will, in effect, automatically be fired within four years. Inevitably his influence over Congress, and even his authority over the sprawling executive branch, weaken. His party leadership frays as presidential hopefuls carve out their own constituencies for the next election. Whether the president is trying to tamp down scandal or push legislation, he loses his ability to set the agenda.'b'But whether or not a president has a diminished second term, the amendment barring a third term presents the broader and more serious question of his accountability to the people.'b'While political commentators analyze every twist in White House politics, while citizens follow dramatic stories of leaks, investigations and indictments, the one person who does not have to care is George W. Bush. In a sense, he has transcended the risks and rewards of American politics. He will not run again for office. The voters will not be able to thank him -- or dump him.'b'And yet accountability to the people is at the heart of a democratic system.'b'There was nothing in the original Constitution of 1787 that barred a third or fourth term for presidents. That was why Franklin Delano Roosevelt could run again in 1940 and 1944, becoming the only president to serve more than two terms. And that was why, three years later, in 1947, after sporadic public debate, Republicans demanded presidential term limits and changed the Constitution.'b"With majorities in both chambers of Congress, Republicans, joined by Southern Democrats opposed to the New Deal, were able to push the 22nd Amendment through the House (after only two hours of debate!) and the Senate (after five days of debate). At the time, an amendment limiting presidents to two terms in office seemed an effective way to invalidate Roosevelt's legacy, to discredit this most progressive of presidents. In the House, one of the few Northern Democrats to vote with the majority was freshman representative John F. Kennedy, whose father had fallen out with Roosevelt. In the spring of 1947, as the historian David Kyvig noted, 18 state legislatures rushed to ratify the amendment, with virtually no public participation in the debate. By 1951, the required three-fourths of the state legislatures had ratified it."b'While George Washington limited himself to two terms, it had never been his intention to create a precedent. Washington didn\'t want to die in office and have the succession appear "monarchical." But his primary reason for retiring was simply that after a lifetime of public service, he was bone-tired, desperate to return to the tranquillity of Mount Vernon.'b"Washington's close confidant Alexander Hamilton also had firmly opposed presidential term limits. In Federalist No. 72, Hamilton argued that term limits for the chief executive would diminish inducements to good behavior, discourage presidents from undertaking bold new projects, deny the nation the advantage of his experience and threaten political stability. For his part, Washington added that term limits would exclude from the presidency a man whose leadership might be essential in a time of emergency."b'Should presidents -- whether George W. Bush, Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton -- be denied the opportunity to serve their country and carry through their programs? Should they be allowed to govern without any accountability to voters? Should voters be denied two supreme powers -- the right to give popular presidents more terms in office and to repudiate a failed president at the polls? "We ought to take a serious look and see if we haven\'t interfered with the democratic rights of the people," Ronald Reagan said in 1986.'b"Some defenders of the 22nd Amendment might argue that an incumbent second-term president would have an even more formidable and undeserved advantage in recognition, experience and the prestige of his office today than in the 1940's. But the power of incumbency may actually decrease with time. After his landslide victory for a second term in 1936, Roosevelt saw his popular vote drop in 1940 and even more in 1944."b'And what about an unfair head start in campaign fund-raising? Presidential incumbents already have a significant advantage, but not necessarily an overwhelming one, especially with campaign finance reform. In a democratic republic, only the Constitution should trump the will of the majority, not the economic vicissitudes of the campaign trail.'b'Since 1956, many bipartisan resolutions to repeal the 22nd Amendment have been submitted to Congress -- and gone nowhere. The most recent one to be buried in a subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee was proposed last February. Oddly, both the current chairman of that committee, F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, and the former chairman, Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, both Republicans, have in the past co-sponsored resolutions to repeal the amendment.'b'Hasn\'t the time come for Congress and the voters to revoke an authoritarian, barely considered amendment? Republicans, who revere "original intent" in interpreting the Constitution and who applaud the rise of the conservative movement, should welcome the possibility of a three- or four-term Republican president, thus avoiding "second termitis."'b"And Democrats, as they contemplate the century that lies ahead, can hope that in another world crisis, this misbegotten amendment will not be there to bar a future Franklin Roosevelt from offering the kind of leadership that he provided in the 1940's."b'Op-Ed Contributor James MacGregor Burns and Susan Dunn teach at Williams College and are the authors of "George Washington" and "The Three Roosevelts: Patrician Leaders Who Transformed America."'b"Bashar al-Assad faces a moment of truth that he has worked hard to evade. The Syrian dictator has been asked to meet with a United Nations team investigating last February's truck-bomb murder of the former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri. If Mr. Assad stonewalls or refuses to meet with the team, even those Security Council members who have shielded Syria -- like Russia, China and Algeria -- will find it hard to claim that Damascus is cooperating enough to avoid imposing tough sanctions."b"The heat is rising on Mr. Assad from other quarters as well. Last week, Al Arabiya television broadcast an interview with his former vice president, Abdel-Halim Khaddam, long the ultimate Damascus insider on Lebanon. For two decades, until his forced resignation last June, Mr. Khaddam planned Syria's Lebanon policies for Mr. Assad and his father. In the interview, Mr. Khaddam reported that Bashar al-Assad had personally threatened Mr. Hariri less than six months before the assassination, and noted that approval for such a blatant act of political terrorism could have come only from the highest levels of the Syrian regime."b"United Nations investigators also plan to talk with Mr. Khaddam, whose remarks touched off a choreographed outburst of denunciations and threats from the shrinking circle of Assad loyalists in Damascus. Those menaces cannot be taken lightly. Last October, Ghazi Kanaan, the former Syrian interior minister who carried out many of Mr. Khaddam's policies in Lebanon, committed suicide under unexplained circumstances shortly after discussing the Hariri case with U. N. investigators."b"Syria's efforts to thwart this inquiry are not only shielding Mr. Hariri's killers from justice, but are also making it impossible for Lebanon's people to regain full control of their country after decades of stifling foreign military occupation. Firm pressure from the Security Council helped get Syrian troops withdrawn last year. More pressure will be needed to finally end Syria's deadly meddling in Lebanese affairs."b'Now that Jack Abramoff, the Republican power lobbyist, has pleaded guilty to fraud and conspiracy charges and agreed to cooperate with federal prosecutors, the big question is how aggressively the Justice Department will pursue a case that could ensnare prominent Republicans.'b'Mr. Abramoff\'s plea sent a well-deserved wave of anxiety washing up the Capitol steps, and Alice Fisher, the assistant attorney general in charge of the department\'s criminal division, certainly got everyone\'s attention when she declared that "government officials and government action are not for sale" and suggested that a bigger influence-peddling scandal was about to break.'b'So far, only one member of Congress is directly caught up: Representative Bob Ney, Republican of Ohio, who is said to be the document\'s mysterious "Representative 1." But at least a dozen lawmakers (from both parties, but mostly Republicans) have reason to be nervous about their dealings with Mr. Abramoff. The rest of Congress should worry about rising public awareness of the scandalous symbiosis between lobbyists and lawmakers, of which Mr. Abramoff is only the most notorious exemplar.'b"The plea agreement, for example, says that Mr. Abramoff funneled $50,000 through a charity organization to the wife of a senior staff member of Tom DeLay, the former House majority leader, in exchange for favors. And there are uncounted strands to this web, including a report that Mr. DeLay's former chief of staff, Edwin Buckham, ran a supposed grass-roots patriotic organization -- the U.S. Family Network -- that might have received a secret $1 million payment from Russian energy executives who hired Mr. Abramoff."b'We should note that the plea-copping deal did produce some immediate action: Dennis Hastert, the House speaker, finally rid himself of $69,000 in Abramoff contributions, sending the radioactive money to charity.'b'But it remains to be seen how far Ms. Fisher and her boss, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, will take the investigation. Ms. Fisher got this job through a recess appointment, which President Bush used to bypass the Senate, where Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, had put a hold on her nomination over questions about her involvement in torture policies. There will be a strong burden on her and Mr. Gonzales to show Americans that politics are not playing a role in the case. The nation cannot afford another example of the way this Justice Department, under Mr. Gonzales and his predecessor, John Ashcroft, has let partisan politics trump prosecutorial judgment.'b"In the long history of coal mine tragedies in Appalachia, few have borne the compound misery suffered in Sago, W.Va., where a dozen families were plunged from exultation to furious grief by a false report that their loved ones had survived a deadly mine explosion on Monday. After realizing the calamitous mistake, mining company officials took three hours to confirm the error and tell the truth to the dead miners' families, further devastating the community."b'Survivors are left with the apology of the company officials and rescuers who eagerly rushed the false word forth. But government investigators must waste no time in ascertaining the actual cause of the blast, for the Sago mine was already notorious for its long list of safety violations and fines.'b"The mine, with more than 270 safety citations in the last two years, is the latest example of how workers' risks are balanced against company profits in an industry with pervasive political clout and patronage inroads in government regulatory agencies. Many of the Sago citations were serious enough to potentially set off accidental explosions and shaft collapses, and more than a dozen involved violations that mine operators knew about but failed to correct, according to government records."b'Sadly, in the way mines are often run, the $24,000 in fines paid by the Sago managers last year constituted little more than the cost of doing business. In the Appalachian routine, miners balking at risky conditions down below can quickly forfeit their livelihood if they have no union protection.'b"Political figures from both parties have long defended and profited from ties to the coal industry. Whether or not that was a factor in the Sago mine's history, the Bush administration's cramming of important posts in the Department of the Interior with biased operatives from the coal, oil and gas industry is not reassuring about general safety in the mines. Steven Griles, a mining lobbyist before being appointed deputy secretary of the interior, devoted four years to rolling back mine regulations and then went back to lobbying for the industry."b'Just as Hurricane Katrina forced Americans to look at the face of lingering poverty and racism, this mining tragedy should focus us all on another forgotten, mistreated corner of society. The Sago mine disaster is far more than a story of cruel miscommunication. The dozen dead miners deserve to be memorialized with fresh scrutiny of the state of mine safety regulation and a resurrection of political leadership willing to look beyond Big Coal to the interests of those who risk their lives in the mines.'b'Washington - THE bad guy with a fondness for quoting the most extortionary lines of "The Godfather" walks out of the courtroom dressed like a film noir villain. He was there because his pretty-boy partner had already dropped a dime on him. Lying, cheating, stealing, gambling  and Indians. By Washington standards, the Jack Abramoff scandal is about as theatrical as you can get without having sex in the headline. (The last scandal here to involve costumes was Abscam: we were due for something that would offer better material for fancy-dress parties than blue dresses and scooters.)'b"Until Tuesday, Mr. Abramoff's elaborate web of corruption was an inside-the-Beltway story: we were the only ones with the patience for it. But nothing simplifies a scandal like a guilty plea. Now, the queasily intricate dance of payoffs, favors and influence-peddling that seems to implicate people from the White House on down has the nation on edge."b"Yet despite predictions that Mr. Abramoff's deal is the beginning and not the end of the story, it's difficult to see if this one will end with the satisfying clink of handcuffs."b"True, we are told, repeatedly, that the case has half of Washington's powerbrokers looking over their shoulder and the other half salivating for a parade of perp walks. And in Washington, a high body count gets everyone's attention (except maybe the president's). Mr. Abramoff's connections seem infinite; attempts to follow the money give you something looking less like a flow chart than like spaghetti. Delicious, felonious spaghetti."b"But who is actually going to receive Jack Abramoff's Lady-and-the-Tramp-style kiss of death? The only plausible candidate at the moment is Representative Bob Ney, an Ohio Republican who appears to be a rather ham-fisted bungler. Mr. Abramoff had dealings with dozens of Washington bigwigs, yet Representative Ney is the only one to make a (pseudonymous) appearance in the indictment."b'What Mr. Ney did was either very bad or very stupid, likely both. But he hardly needed Mr. Abramoff to besmirch his reputation: he has recently drawn scrutiny for the unlikely feat of winning $34,000 on an initial $100 bet during a London casino romp, and on another junket he met with a convicted con artist whom MSNBC reported had "cheated on his taxes and was involved in a deal to swindle Elvis Presley." Mr. Ney refused to discuss these issues with the press because of "national security implications." Well, Richard Nixon did give Elvis a federal drug agent\'s badge.'b'Despite the desperate glee of the editorializers and the almost-as-desperate rinsing of Abramoff funds from Republican coffers, the smell in the air is panic, not blood. In order to cast their net beyond Diamond Bob Ney, the feds would have to, as one Republican source told the Times, "pursue a different definition of bribery" -- that is, prove that "if somebody were to give a gift or a campaign contribution in the same time period as a member took an official action, that in and of itself would constitute bribery." And you thought Patrick Fitzgerald was criminalizing politics.'b"Sad to admit it, but most of what Jack Abramoff did with politicians (as opposed to his outright fraud with Indian tribes) wasn't criminal so much as extreme. The Hollywood arc would have a chain-gang of Congressmen breaking rocks by the final reel, but we are unlikely to get such satisfaction outside of celluloid."b"The best we can do is hope that the lack of so cinematic a finish will not mean that the Abramoff affair will be irrelevant or even forgettable. For one thing, Mr. Abramoff may go down as the first man in American history too corrupt to be a lobbyist. Poor Paul Miller, who as president of the American League of Lobbyists (that's the one with the designated-hitter rule) has the thankless task of defending his trade, told reporters he was reluctant to say that Mr. Abramoff even deserved to be called a member of the profession. O.K., but he deserves to be called other things. Some of them unprintable in family newspapers."b"Other modern Congressional kerfuffles have not been as flashy. Neither the Congressional check-kiting scandal, the Keating Five imbroglio nor Dan Rostenkowski's thrilling run-in over postal franking privileges are likely to be made into a mini-series any time soon. But these past episodes did have the advantage of being prosecutable."b'With his casinos, phony charities and Scottish golfing trips, Jack Abramoff has drawn attention to Washington\'s fascinatingly filthy underbelly. One can only hope that the melodrama will keep people watching. While we should hesitate before defining corruption still further down ("No chiseler left behind!"), we don\'t need to pause before throwing the bums out. Ask any lawmaker: the harshest penalty one can receive isn\'t prison; it\'s losing.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Ana Marie Cox is the editor of the Wonkette blog and author of the novel "Dog Days."'b"Li-On, Israel - IT is too early to assess Ariel Sharon's legacy. To be sure, he will be remembered as one of Israel's great field commanders, the wily, bulldozing general who cracked the Egyptian bastion at Um Katef-Abu Awgeila in 1967 and led the crossing of the Suez Canal in 1973, turning the tables in the Yom Kippur War. With greater ambiguity, he will go down as the defense minister who orchestrated the 1982 invasion of Lebanon that, paradoxically, set Yasir Arafat on the road to Oslo and (however insincerely) peace with Israel."b"Mr. Sharon will also be known as the chief architect of the Likud Party's settlement drive in the occupied territories. His defeat, as prime minister, of the second Palestinian intifada will doubtless be carefully studied, once the hysteria and hype die down, as a model of a relatively clean, successful counterinsurgency."b"But that is for the future. Meanwhile, Mr. Sharon's stroke has plunged Israel and the region into deep confusion."b"Just a few days ago, there were a handful of certainties. All the polls indicated that in the coming Israeli general elections, scheduled for late March, Mr. Sharon's new Kadima Party would win handily, reinstalling him in the premiership. It was not clear how large a mandate he would enjoy or who would be his coalition partners. But a Sharon-led Israel was a certainty."b'Another certainty was that his next term in office would be shadowed by the corruption investigation and charges that have already forced the resignation of his son, Omri Sharon, from the Knesset. But again, this scandal was not expected to be a coalition- or career-breaker: Israeli society has become too jaded, or simply faces too many existential problems, to give much weight to personal miscreancy.'b'Most important, there was a vague certainty that there would be further steps toward a pacification of Israel-Palestine and a separation of its two warring tribes into two relatively homogeneous states. Mr. Sharon had shown the way, courageously, remorselessly, six months ago with the uprooting of the Jewish settlements and the withdrawal of the Israel Defense Forces from the Gaza Strip. And he had shown the way, in defiance of often absurd and mendacious criticism by the Palestinians and their supporters, by pushing forward with the construction of the barrier -- overwhelmingly a fence, not a wall -- between the Arab West Bank and (Jewish) Israel more or less along the 1967 Green Line.'b'Many expected, and some feared, that Mr. Sharon would continue with such unilateral steps to separate the two peoples and physically consolidate two separate states. Unilateral, because he believed (as I do) that there was and is no viable Palestinian peace partner. The Palestinian national movement, he believed, still, in the deepest, immutable recesses of its heart, aspires to Israel\'s destruction and replacement by an Arab-majority state, a "one-state solution." That aspiration is why Yasir Arafat rejected the two-state compromise proposed by Mr. Sharon\'s predecessor, Ehud Barak, and President Bill Clinton in 2000 and it is why, from the militant Islamic members of Hamas through the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian national movement refuses to give up the "right of return" of the refugees, the demographic battering ram with which it hopes, ultimately, to bring Israel down.'b"Now, hopes for further daring steps like a unilateral pullout from parts of the West Bank have been dashed. What successor, however peace-minded, will have the political will or ability to do something so bold and politically problematic? It is profoundly unclear who will win the coming elections and with what sort of mandate: Ehud Olmert, the deputy prime minister who is Mr. Sharon's likely successor as head of the new Kadima list (a party without institutions or structure and a leadership composed of Shimon Peres, the former Labor Party leader, and former Likud stalwarts); Amir Peretz, the new blue-collar chief of the Labor Party; or Benjamin Netanyahu, the resurrected head of the truncated Likud?"b"What is likely is that there will be no clear mandate for any party or leader. Moreover, none of Mr. Sharon's probable successors to the premiership is made of that leadership stuff that ultimately endeared him to the majority of Israelis."b'One certainty remains. Israel, and especially and paradoxically, its large moderate left and center, is in the grip of a great sadness. Those opposed to peace, in the slums of Rafah and the Jewish settlement compound of downtown Hebron, can be expected to rejoice (as they did when Mr. Sharon suffered his small first stroke, on Dec. 18 ). The Islamic fundamentalists and the so-called Palestinian secularists who view Israel as a cancer and seek its destruction will honk their horns and hand out candy to the cruelly misled children of Gaza; and those Jews who are unwilling to give up the dream of Greater Israel and, perhaps, of ridding this land of its Arab usurpers, will offer thanks to the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.'b"There will also be little sadness at Mr. Sharon's passing among those Israelis and their Diaspora supporters who have long demonized Mr. Sharon and Israel and who long ago gave up any hope or desire for a lasting Jewish state, and believe, or pretend to believe, that Jews and Arabs can live together like a bunch of mindless lambs in equality and under one political roof."b"But the solid center and left of Jewish Israel, the country's majority, who want to trade land for peace and reach a stable two-state solution, are tuning into their televisions this day with heavy hearts. They realize that the best hope for peace, that most unlikely of peacemakers, is exiting the stage and that a vista of turmoil and uncertainty has opened up. To be sure, Israel's political structure remains solid and reassuring. But at this bewildering moment, for those interested in progress in the peace process, there is little reason for hope."b'Op-Ed Contributor Benny Morris, the author of "The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem Revisited," is a professor of history at Ben-Gurion University in Beersheba, Israel.'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'Washington - IN a meeting with top Republican lawmakers in November, the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, decided to make lobbying reform a priority for 2006. As leadership decisions go, it was a no-brainer: everyone in the room knew that the Jack Abramoff scandal was festering, and that the issue of corrupt lobbyists was not going away. So Senator Frist asked Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania to take charge of the issue, in an effort to align the party with the cause of reform and avoid beingcaught in a defensive crouch.'b"So far, the leadership's reform proposal is little more than a laundry list of ideas. That puts Messrs Frist and Santorum far behind their fellow Republican senator, John McCain, and several Democrats -- Senator Russell Feingold and Representatives Marty Meehan and Rahm Emmanuel -- who have proposals of their own. Maybe Senator Frist's idea will work, politically. Undoubtedly it will put Republicans on the side of those good-government calls for reform that are likely to grow louder and louder in the weeks to come. But will lobbying reform actually reform lobbying? Not much."b"After all, it is already illegal to bribe officeholders and defraud your clients, as Mr. Abramoff has admitted doing. It's already illegal to accept bribes, as Mr. Abramoff's plea agreement suggests at least one member of Congress has done. No reform is needed to prosecute that."b'Rather, the main thrust of the reform proposals involves requiring greater disclosure from lobbyists and their clients about just who is paying whom for what. "What Abramoff did could have been tagged earlier, or even not been able to occur, with greater transparency and understanding of the links between people," one Republican aide working on the project told me.'b"The problem, however, will become apparent when lawmakers try to devise measures that will not only spot abuses like Jack Abramoff's but also affect the everyday process of lobbying and legislating. For example, if Congress passes, as it does hundreds of times each year, a spending measure that affects a specific business, it attracts the intense interest of that business, which has a strong incentive to do whatever it takes to achieve a favorable result. A number of reformers believe there's no way to clean up lobbying without cutting down on those so-called earmarks, and that's a far bigger problem than lobbying reform."b"And then there are the loopholes. In a Senate floor speech, Mr. McCain took pains to point out that he would not require so-called 501(c) charitable organizations to reveal their donors. Yet Mr. Abramoff's charity, the Capital Athletic Foundation, was just such an entity; so was the U.S. Family Network, the group associated with Representative Tom DeLay that is reported to have received $1 million from Russian oil interests."b'And then there is a more fundamental problem: Lobbying is a perfectly legitimate pursuit. Would anyone argue that Congress should make a decision with far-reaching effects on, say, Wal-Mart or General Electric or an Indian tribe without hearing from them? Especially when those decisions affect thousands of employees? In the debates to come, there will be a lot of demonizing of lobbying, but it is a normal and healthy part of government.'b'The one sure bet in all this is that lobbying reform laws are going to pass. Even before Mr. Abramoff, the public thought the influence-buying game was sleazy. Now, well, who would oppose reform? Mr. McCain, who faced years of opposition to campaign finance reform, knows this one will be much easier. "I don\'t think it would offend very many people except those in the lobbying community," he told me in November.'b"Senator McCain was right; just look at who is already on the reform bandwagon. The first senator to sign on as a co-sponsor to Mr. McCain's bill was none other than Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, who is also the senator most frequently linked to the Abramoff matter. When it comes to lobbying in this post-Abramoff world, everyone's a reformer -- and that could be a problem."b'Op-Ed Contributor Byron York, the White House correspondent for National Review, is the author of "The Vast Left-Wing Conspiracy."'b"Correction:  January 11, 2006, Wednesday  An Op-Ed article on Friday about corruption in Washington misspelled a House member's surname. It is Rahm Emanuel, not Emmanuel."b"THERE are shivers running through official Washington, and it's not just the January cold. The plea bargain by the lobbyist Jack Abramoff threatens to ensnare key lawmakers in scandal and potential legal troubles, including some Congressional leaders. The case, with its luxury skyboxes, politicians shilling for gambling interests and lobbyists stealing from Indian tribes, symbolizes Washington's extreme cash-for-policy culture. But what can we do to ensure that, when the dust clears, things won't just go back to politics as usual?"b'In the long struggle to strengthen democracy, reform sometimes follows scandal, but not always. Often appalling corruption has produced a yawn rather than a shriek. True progress comes only from rare "reform moments," when accumulated public outrage combines with potent policy changes.'b"In the late 1800's, everybody knew that campaigns were financed by patronage appointees, but it took the assassination of President James A. Garfield in 1881 by a spurned job-seeker to spur civil service reform."b'At the beginning of the last century, the rise of corporations bred new corruption, tainting even President Theodore Roosevelt. After it was revealed that Roosevelt had received large donations from the insurance industry in 1904, he felt his honor had been besmirched. "Sooner or later, unless there is a readjustment, there will come a riotous, wicked, murderous day of atonement," he told a reporter, and eventually he won passage of the first federal law banning corporate campaign gifts.'b'A 1906 muckraking article in Cosmopolitan magazine called "The Treason of the Senate" exposed how corrupt state legislatures controlled the senators they appointed and sent to Washington. Public outcry was so fierce and sustained that the Constitution was amended in 1913 to provide direct election of senators.'b"Another great wave of reform came in the 1970's. After Watergate, Congress established public financing and voluntary spending limits for presidential races. It even imposed spending limits on legislative contests, though that provision was struck down by the Supreme Court. Scandal begat reform locally, too. New York City's landmark public financing system, under which candidates receive matching public funds, was enacted not because of vague good-government sentiments but in response to the 1980's scandals that led to party leaders being imprisoned and a former Queens Borough president, Donald Manes, committing suicide."b'Unfortunately, just as often scandals lead merely to cynicism and fatigue, from Teapot Dome in the 1920\'s to the Abscam criminal convictions of Congressmen in the 1970\'s. The savings and loan collapse of the 1980\'s produced the memorable image of the Keating Five senators testifying in shame before Congress. A new president, Bill Clinton, whom I served as a political reform adviser, proposed reform. But House Democratic leaders soon got what Lincoln diagnosed in his generals as "the slows." I will never feel more frustrated than I did standing in the Senate antechamber as reform was filibustered to death.'b'Intriguingly, the most recent campaign finance law passed without the spur of a specific scandal. Yes, the public was aware of the rising role of soft money, and stories of big donors staying in the Lincoln Bedroom got wide attention. But the bipartisan campaign reform act introduced by Senators Russell Feingold and John McCain passed only after six years of patient organizing.'b'So, can the Abramoff mess become a true tipping point? It depends on the boldness of the reform proposals. Yes, measures to tighten disclosure for lobbyists, like those proposed by Senator McCain and Representative Marty Meehan, are no doubt needed. But voters should insist on a stronger system to transform campaign finance at the same time.'b"For example, last year Connecticut passed a full public-financing system for legislative and statewide elections after a series of scandals, including one that forced the resignation of Gov. John Rowland and his guilty plea to a conspiracy charge. Another approach would be a matching funds system for Congressional races similar to New York City's system."b"Just as important, the public must be persuaded that change will truly bring accountability. Reform must not be presented simply as a matter of political hygiene, but as a way to bolster voters' voices in the legislative process. Mr. Abramoff was central to the Republicans' so-called K Street Project, in which the Congressional majority sought to create a political machine tying Republican politicians to business lobbyists. A century ago muckrakers educated the public about such networks; perhaps today's bloggers can play a similar role."b'Finally, the reform moment will arrive when politicians, in their own self-interest, press for change. There are hopeful signs. Democrats, finally shedding their incumbent mindsets after a decade in the minority, have now made political reform a central plank. Republicans are far more implicated in the current scandal, which may give their rank and file new reasons to turn to Senator McCain for leadership.'b'Jack Abramoff\'s football stadium skybox may never become a symbol as potent as the parking garage where the cinematic Deep Throat whispered, "Follow the money." But even a jaded public can reach a tipping point. As the scandal unfolds, let\'s hope it leads not just to lurid headlines but lasting change.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Michael Waldman is the executive director of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law.'b"For proof that criminalizing abortion doesn't reduce abortion rates and only endangers the lives of women, consider Latin America. In most of the region, abortions are a crime, but the abortion rate is far higher than in Western Europe or the United States. Colombia -- where abortion is illegal even if a woman's life is in danger -- averages more than one abortion per woman over all of her fertile years. In Peru, the average is nearly two abortions per woman over the course of her reproductive years."b'In a region where there is little sex education and social taboos keep unmarried women from seeking contraception, criminalizing abortion has not made it rare, only dangerous. Rich women can go to private doctors. The rest rely on quacks or amateurs or do it themselves. Up to 5,000 women die each year from abortions in Latin America, and hundreds of thousands more are hospitalized.'b"Abortion is legal on demand in the region only in Cuba, and a few other countries permit it for extreme circumstances, mostly when the mother's life is at risk, the fetus will not live or the pregnancy is the result of rape. Even when pregnancies do qualify for legal abortions, women are often denied them because anti-abortion local medical officials and priests intervene, the requirements are unnecessarily stringent, or women do not want to incur the public shame of reporting rape."b'But Latin Americans are beginning to look at abortion as an issue of maternal mortality, not just maternal morality. Where they have been conducted, polls show that Latin Americans support the right to abortion under some circumstances. Decriminalization, at least in part, is being seriously discussed in Colombia, Brazil, Venezuela, Uruguay and Argentina, and perhaps will be on the agenda after the presidential election in July in Mexico.'b"International pressure is helping. In November, the United Nations Human Rights Committee decided that Peru had violated a woman's rights when a hospital denied an abortion to a 17-year-old carrying a severely malformed fetus, who died shortly after birth. United Nations conferences on women also have forced governments to track and publish their progress on expanding women's rights. This has emboldened women's groups and led to the creation of government offices on women's issues, which have helped the push for abortion rights."b"Latin American women, who are increasing their participation in the work force and in politics, have also become more vocal. Their voice would be much louder were it not for the Bush administration's global gag rule, which bans any family planning group that gets American money from speaking about abortions, or even criticizing unsafe illegal abortions. This has silenced such respected and influential groups as Profamilia in Colombia. Anti-abortion lawmakers in Washington can look at Latin America as a place where the global gag rule has worked exactly as they had hoped. All Americans can look at Latin America to see unnecessary deaths and injuries from unsafe abortions."b'When Prime Minister Ariel Sharon announced two months ago that he was leaving the right-wing Likud Party, which he had embodied for three decades, one thing seemed certain: his new centrist party, Kadima, would be far more about one man -- himself -- than any one idea.'b"It's possible that this could even have worked for a time. Mr. Sharon struck such a powerful chord with the Israelis' craving for security and stability that he might well have been able to bulldoze his people into the future as he saw it. But Mr. Sharon's massive second stroke means that both Kadima and what passes for the Israeli political center must now find a political vision that revolves around more than just Ariel Sharon."b"With Mr. Sharon not expected to return to the helm, the Israeli people could still have three clear choices. Mr. Sharon's old Likud Party, now headed by Benjamin Netanyahu, represents the same old Likud way: inflaming Palestinian tensions through war and continuing settlements on Palestinian land in the West Bank."b"The Labor Party, with its new leader, Amir Peretz, represents the Labor way: negotiations with the Palestinians. Unfortunately, the failure of the Oslo accords and the Palestinians' own inability to rein in their self-defeating attacks on Israel have understandably left many Israelis with little appetite for more talk. The president of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, and his ruling Fatah Party seem ill equipped even to hold proper local elections, let alone negotiate a peace deal."b"But what, then, is the third way that Kadima could theoretically represent? The vision pushed forward by Mr. Sharon for the past year has been built around the central tenet of separation: the idea that the Israelis can't live with the Palestinians, so they will separate from the Palestinians and build a wall to make the separation visible and permanent. Mr. Sharon looked at the demographics of his country and came to the conclusion that the only way to keep Israel a Jewish state was to detach it physically, wherever possible, from the Palestinians. Toward that end, he faced down the relatively small number of Israeli settlers in Gaza and carried out the country's first unilateral withdrawal from land that Palestinians claimed for their future state."b"That Sharon approach, for which the combative prime minister won the enthusiastic backing of President Bush, called for less confrontation than the one offered by Likud, and less talk than proposed by Labor. It didn't depend much on whether the Palestinians ever got their act together -- something they appear bent on proving themselves incapable of doing."b"It is possible that Kadima, with Mr. Sharon's deputy, Ehud Olmert, likely to be at the helm, can cast itself as a new centrist alternative to Labor and Likud. But Mr. Olmert, while a respected politician who helped formulate the Sharon doctrine of unilateral withdrawal from Gaza, has neither the stature nor the popularity of Ariel Sharon. So while Mr. Sharon would probably have been able to carry Israel on the back of his own charisma and appeal, Mr. Olmert is likely to have to rely instead on the appeal of Kadima's vision."b"That vision cannot be one that relies solely on unilateral separation. For a centrist way to work, there has to be a vision that also encompasses the steps necessary to eventually end the seemingly never-ending conflict with the Palestinians, including a complete enough withdrawal from the West Bank to give the Palestinians a workable state. It would secure Mr. Sharon's place in history if the centrist party he founded somehow managed to turn his vision of separation into one of a just and lasting peace."b"As inspectors delve into the deadly mine disaster in Sago, W.Va., their starting premise must be that the explosion that choked off 12 workers' lives would never have happened if all the safety rules now on the books had been properly enforced. Mining regulations born of decades of death and disaster dictate in detail the most basic protections for survival, like adequate ventilation and roof supports."b'Yet full enforcement was clearly lacking at the Sago mine, with its long record of chronic violations and an injury rate almost triple the average for similar mines. Federal officials claim that the mine was adequately monitored.'b"But in accounting for the deaths, inspectors should look as well into the budget cutbacks and staff attrition that have marked the Bush administration's management of its own ranks in the Mine Safety and Health Administration. The latest budget imposes a $4.9 million cut for the safety agency, according to Congressional critics who estimate that the agency has suffered a reduction of 170 positions in the past five years."b"The ensuing government laxity -- and the increasing risks that miners take to get their hard-earned wages -- were underlined three years ago by the Government Accountability Office in a study of 10 years of work by the mine safety administration, a period covering the management records of both Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. It warned of the looming retirements of qualified inspectors, and the failure to follow up adequately on nearly half of the violations found. Rather than turning this around, the Bush administration's main attention to the coal industry has been to appoint a raft of political appointees directly from energy corporations to critical regulatory posts."b"For better or worse, coal is ever a prime economic resource for West Virginia -- a lodestone for corporations, and still a millstone for too many miners. This has been true through the political ages, right up through the powerful reign of the state's Democratic favorite son, Senator Robert Byrd, who has packed West Virginia with highway projects and other pork-barrel goodies that have somehow failed to securely touch the lives of the long-suffering coal miners. We hope for fresh orations from the gifted senator on behalf of the threats to his constituent miners, with an eloquence to match his speeches on behalf of the soldiers at risk in Iraq, coupled with the judicious use of his legendary political prowess to restore the money cut from the mine safety budget and to help make other needed reforms."b'It is hardly enough to say that coal mining, while inherently dangerous, has taken fewer lives across the decades. Even statistically, never mind morally, the 12 lives lost at Sago are startling in a state that had more than 120,000 miners a half-century ago but is now down to fewer than 14,000 in an age of greater mining mechanization. What is constant is the demand for coal, with companies zeroing in to work the most from marginal mines like Sago. And what is constant, too, is a shocking loss like the Sago 12, who might have survived if government had lived up to its responsibilities.'b'It was a measure of the failure of Congressional leadership on both sides of the aisle that Newt Gingrich, the disgraced former speaker, was the one to lecture the House Republican majority this week on the siren lure of lobbyists and the pitfalls of cronyism. But Mr. Gingrich, whose downfall included a $300,000 penalty for violating House ethics rules nine years ago, did speak truth. "You can\'t have a corrupt lobbyist without a corrupt member or a corrupt staffer on the other end," he warned fellow Republicans, who were stunned when Jack Abramoff, the lobbyist darling of legislative leaders, copped a plea and promised to help an investigation of influence peddling at the Capitol.'b'In the blink of a news cycle, lawmakers and President Bush were turning over tainted donations from the Abramoff money machine to charity, as if they were buying indulgences for a political inquisition to come. They gave no sign of heeding the real messages of the week.'b"One was that true redemption can come only from a full reform of Congress's porous to nonexistent rules governing members' dealings with lobbyists. And the other is that the Congressional leadership on both sides of the aisle seems incapable of rising to the occasion. Real change will require a ground-level alliance between true conservatives, some of them part of Mr. Gingrich's anticorruption revolution to gain majority power in 1994, and reformers on the Democratic side who are willing to make that bargain."b"Right now, the rules are little more than velvet ropes at the Inner Sanctum club of lawmakers and their embedded lobbyists. Dozens of incumbents in both parties are close enough to potent lobbyists to have them run their political fund-raising committees. It's also been routine for lobbyists to pay for lawmakers' junketeering -- an estimated $18 million worth for 600 of the people's elected choices across the past five years."b'Indeed, the Abramoff scandal could become such a sensation that the more routine lobbying excesses could be overlooked. On a mundane level, these include lobbyists who regularly violate with impunity the existing limits on wining and dining lawmakers and their aides, and on giving them gifts, and the rule on fully reporting lobbying activities. Unfortunately, this Congress is just as likely to raise the $49.99 limit per meal that lobbyists find such an impediment. "In Washington, D.C., there\'s no such thing as a reasonable restaurant," griped one of the many lawmakers who so far just don\'t get it.'b"Anxious Republicans are scurrying to catch up with proposals submitted by such Democrats as Senator Russell Feingold of Wisconsin and Representatives Martin Meehan of Massachusetts and Rahm Emanuel of Illinois. Their plan is a good start. It would curb lobbyists from packaging campaign donations for incumbents; make lawmakers wait two years, not one, before crossing over to the lucrative world of K Street lobbying; and require more conscientious disclosures of lobbyists' spending."b"Even more of a crackdown is needed, including an outright ban on lobbyists' junkets and a clear way of showing the public who the lobbyists are and what they are doing. While they're at it, G.O.P. leaders might find the courage to revive the House's moribund ethics committee."b'Chicago - IT first happened before there was any such thing as a television camera, a satellite uplink truck or a cable-news anchor.'b"And to place the blame for the frenzy and confusion that played out this week in Sago, W.Va., on high-speed media technology, or on some sort of recently born journalistic impulse to spread unsubstantiated rumors, may be convenient -- but it's wrong."b'In fact, the forces that fed the hysteria we witnessed this week -- hopeful and morbid, in sequence and all at once -- were equally manifest in rural Kentucky more than 80 years ago. The front-page news back then emanated from a place known as Sand Cave. The instincts that drove the news are unchanged.'b'In late January 1925, a 37-year-old man named Floyd Collins, a local cave explorer, went deep into Sand Cave. He became trapped in a narrow shaft far below the ground; his left leg was pinned by a 26-pound rock.'b'A 21-year-old newspaper reporter -- Skeets Miller, of The Courier-Journal of Louisville -- arrived at the cave. He was a physically slight man. He crawled into the passage.'b'For nearly 17 days, the nation hung on every word.'b"From Skeets Miller's reporting:"b"Floyd Collins is suffering torture almost beyond description, but he is still hopeful he will be taken out alive, he told me at 6:20 o'clock last night on my last visit to him."b"Until I went inside myself I could not understand exactly what the situation was. I wondered why someone couldn't do something quick, but I found out why."b"I was lowered by my heels into the entrance of Sand Cave.  From here on I had to squirm like a snake. The dirty water splashed in my face and numbed my body, but I couldn't stop.  I saw the purple of his lips, the pallor on the face, and realized that something must be done before long if this man is to live."b'Before I could see his face, however, I was forced to raise a small piece of oilcloth covering it.'b'"Put it back," he said. "Put it back -- the water."'b"As soon as Miller's articles began to be transmitted by wire, Sand Cave and its environs became a different place. Strangers from as many as 20 states, drawn by the news, began descending on the area; maps bearing directions to the cave were distributed, special trains dropped curiosity-seekers off, a tent city was erected. Radio, then a new medium, broadcast updates across the nation."b"The listeners and newspaper readers didn't know Floyd Collins -- but Skeets Miller, crawling into the cave, made them feel as if they did."b"I tried to squirm over Collins' body to reach the rock, but his body takes up nearly all the space. I squeezed in, hunting for some way to help him, until he begged me to get off."b'"It hurts -- hurts awful," he said.'b'For all the misgivings people claim to have about the tone of news coverage of these stories -- Jessica McClure in Texas in 1987, the miners in Pennsylvania in 2002, West Virginia this week -- the appetite for the coverage always has been present, and always has been fueled by the same visceral fear: the terror of being buried alive in the dark.'b'Whatever excesses and mistakes the news media are being criticized for in West Virginia, no correspondents were reported to have tried to go into the Sago mine in search of an exclusive. Before there was any such thing as a media village, tens of thousands of everyday citizens formed what was widely described as an ad hoc county fair near the cave where Floyd Collins was trapped.'b'According to reports from the time, food was hawked; contraband liquor was passed around; souvenirs were sold; a movie studio set up cameras; songs were written.'b'Death holds no terror for Floyd Collins, he told me when I fed him tonight, more than 115 hours after he was trapped in Sand Cave, but he does not expect to die in the immediate future.'b'"I believe I would go to heaven," Collins said as I placed a bottle of milk to his lips, "but I can feel that I am to be taken out alive -- and with both.'b'Only the electronic machinery that disseminates the news -- and the speed with which rumors are spread -- is new. The dread and the emptiness are eternal, as present today as they were in February 1925, when rescuers found Floyd Collins dead and Skeets Miller filed his last dispatch and the tent city was torn down.'b'On a highway near the cave where Floyd Collins died, there is still a commemorative plaque. "Rescue attempt publicized worldwide," it says. "Aroused sympathy of nation."'b'Op-Ed Contributor Bob Greene is the author of the forthcoming "And You Know You Should Be Glad: A True Story of Lifelong Friendship."'b"The gadget competition doesn't have to be a zero-sum game. The sooner the geeks figure that out, the better off we'll all be."b'This week in Las Vegas, companies rolled out their newest technologies at the annual Consumer Electronics Show, and next week Apple will hold its own boutique version of that, MacWorld, in San Francisco. Times are good for the industry. Sales of consumer electronics -- including cellphones, digital cameras and plasma-screen televisions -- climbed to $126 billion last year in the United States alone.'b"People would be willing to spend even more if companies in the industry bothered to make their products work with one another. According to Forrester Research, companies are losing a combined $3.8 billion in estimated sales of additional products, content and services by selling stand-alone devices and leaving consumers to make them work together or -- as is more often the case -- not work together. It predicts that such lost sales will rise to $13 billion by 2010 if things don't improve."b"For instance, half the people who own high-definition television sets don't actually get high-definition programming, the report says. One out of three digital-camera owners don't print pictures at all. This extends to personal computers and the gadgets they're supposed to be converging with into a seamless whole. They're more often like unhappy couples: sharing space but not speaking to each other."b"Tech visionaries love to wax poetic about the networked home, straight out of the Jetsons. Maybe if you're Bill Gates. For most people, the reality is a Babel of devices and technical-support staffs that blame other companies and don't help. Computer owners have to become security experts, network specialists and troubleshooters. So people buy less."b"The rewards are rich, and first isn't always best. The iPod wasn't even close to being the earliest digital music player on the market. Now it's the leader because average people found it usable. Still, Apple would do well to ditch the closed-circuit approach and cooperate with other companies better -- or risk repeating the mistakes of the past."b"Responding to yesterday's government report showing paltry job creation in December, Treasury Secretary John Snow urged Americans not to overreact to one month's snapshot, and to focus on the bigger picture. But that picture is not so pretty."b'In 2005, the economy added about 2 million jobs. At this point in the last recovery, the yearly job-gain total was 3.5 million.'b"The longer view is even uglier. Job growth in the current period is the worst by far of the four comparable economic upturns since the 1960's: 2.7 percent versus the 7.8 percent tallied in the weakest of those earlier recoveries."b"It's little wonder, then, that President Bush cherry-picked his way through the latest economic figures in his speech yesterday before the Economic Club of Chicago, rattling off numbers without context. The president's prescription -- more tax cuts -- has failed in the past to create a robust job market and is still not the right answer."b"For the past two years, average hourly wages and weekly salaries have been flat or falling. Americans' borrowing binge has masked the decline in earning power, but good jobs and rising wages are essential for widespread prosperity. Without them, economic growth has become increasingly concentrated among corporations, shareholders and the top 20 percent or so of earners. The holiday shopping season illustrates this situation: retailers that cater to lower- and middle-income shoppers, like Wal-Mart, Sears and Kohl's had disappointing results, while higher-end chains, like Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom, thrived."b"If Jon Corzine, the governor-elect of New Jersey, wants to cleanse the whiff of impropriety still lingering from his coziness with machine politicians, he has a very good place to start. He can do what some associates say he plans to do and throw his weight behind cleaning up corruption and mismanagement at the state's health care university."b'The scope of the wrongdoing at that institution, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, is staggering. More than $700 million in no-bid contracts was awarded over five years, often to politically connected recipients, some of whom did little or no work for the money. Jobs were filled by patronage. School funds were siphoned off for campaign contributions to elected officials. Lavish perquisites and bonuses were given to administrators. The board was riddled with conflicts of interest.'b'The most egregious wrong, to our mind, was the double-billing of Medicaid for the care provided to poor people. Doctors were billing for the services they provided at university clinics, and the university was separately billing for the same services, generating almost $5 million in extra payments at latest count. What makes this double-billing especially reprehensible is that university officials were warned by internal whistle-blowers and outside counsel years ago that the practice was probably illegal. Those responsible for continuing the overcharging scheme deserve to be indicted.'b"These sorry events speak to a culture of corruption and cronyism in the state and a paucity of strong oversight and monitoring. It should be a mark of shame for New Jersey that the driving force in calling the university to account was a federal prosecutor -- United States Attorney Christopher Christie -- not the governor, the state attorney general, the Legislature or the university's board of trustees."b'Using the threat of criminal prosecution of the university for health care fraud, Mr. Christie forced the trustees to adopt a number of management reforms, accept a federal monitor and agree to repay the overcharges. The continuing federal investigation and monitoring may well turn up further evidence of abuses. But reform should not be left to a federal prosecutor and a monitor or to a university board and administration that have been woefully slow to move against corruption in the past.'b'The governorship in New Jersey is the most powerful in the nation. Mr. Corzine needs to use every tool at his disposal to restore the reputation of a medical institution whose most dedicated practitioners are committed to excellence and appalled at the administrative corruption around them.'b'Glencoe, Ill. - WHEN I recently received an invitation to a reunion of my Yale Law School class, it stirred memories of the astounding group of students I found when I arrived there in 1972. Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton are the most famous, of course, but my classmates also include someone else who has made news lately: Sam Alito.'b'When Judge Alito was nominated to the United States Supreme Court, my fellow alumni began contacting one another, contemplating the elevation of one of our own to the highest judicial dais in the land. Sam was remembered fondly and with admiration. But an issue of conscience emerged -- namely, whether respect for Sam could be squared with the deep qualms many of us feel about the Bush administration and its failings. One classmate sent out an anguished e-mail message begging us to fight at all costs a nomination born of such a regime.'b'This is the issue that many liberals face as the Senate begins questioning Judge Alito on Monday. Sadly, Supreme Court confirmations have devolved into litmus tests on policy positions, appropriate for the election of legislators but exactly the opposite of what should be required of a judge. This practice is often traced back to the confirmation hearings that scotched the nomination of Robert Bork. Some say that the hearings for Judge Alito will and should be no different. The two situations are, however, diametrically opposite, and I say that from personal experience.'b"In my first semester of law school, I was assigned to a constitutional law seminar taught by Bob Bork. And though I know Yale's faculty members embrace a broad range of views, the extremity of Professor Bork's positions still amazes me."b"Professor Bork coupled a distaste for the Bill of Rights with a devotion to the Commerce Clause that made it the centerpiece of our entire semester. The privilege against self-incrimination, we were told, should have been limited only to cases of physical intimidation and torture -- certainly it should not be invoked to protect a defendant from verbal self-incrimination on the witness stand. Charming and articulate, Professor Bork told us that he had left the practice of law to pursue the more intellectual aims of teaching because, frankly, he just didn't care that much about people."b'It was easy to believe him. The next year, when, as solicitor general, he fired the independent prosecutor Archibald Cox in order to protect Richard Nixon from the Watergate scandal, we students watched the reports on live television from the student lounge in despair -- but not, for those of us who had sat in that con law seminar, in shock.'b'Professor Bork clearly had a brilliant and provocative mind, and the Constitution was grist for his mill. But he was the perfect example of someone who should be kept off the Supreme Court at all costs. He was too extreme to serve on a court of last resort and showed little regard for the Bill of Rights. He had the intellectual arrogance of an ideologue, and his conservatism served causes like Watergate.'b'When I finished law school I clerked for Leonard P. Moore, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The contrast with Professor Bork was stark. Judge Moore checked his ego at the courthouse door. He was politically conservative, but his great integrity, restraint and personal devotion to the law made him a fair and sensitive jurist. He hired clerks irrespective of their political views -- indeed, he relished the exchange of ideas with clerks whose ideas were different from his own. He was open-minded in his discussions with us and weighed all viewpoints carefully.'b"Sam Alito's character suggests he'll follow the tradition of Judge Moore. In our class Sam was respected for his intellectual ability. He was quiet, but when he did speak his remarks were thoughtful and to the point. He wasn't showy or pretentious. He listened to others. I can't recall Sam prejudging an issue or reaching arbitrary conclusions. He worked hard and was never ashamed of that, even at a school that favored the appearance of effortless brilliance."b'Since announcing the nomination of Judge Alito, the Bush administration has conducted a high-powered marketing campaign to sell him to the public. Such efforts anticipate and seek to thwart hostile confirmation hearings like those that sank Robert Bork. But neither a witch hunt at the Senate nor a hard sell from the White House will afford Sam Alito the confirmation process he, or the country, deserves: one as thoughtful and measured as the legal mind it considers.'b"The pain of living in a pluralistic society is that sometimes my ideas prevail, but sometimes the prevailing idea is yours. When we disagree on policy, my best investment is in leadership that is fair, concerned for the welfare of the American people, and devoted to our Constitution. Many feel that the current administration comes up short in these areas, but that doesn't mean that everyone it taps for service does. I cannot, for example, imagine Sam Alito disparaging the right of an accused person to remain silent at trial."b"The president took the high road on this nomination. He juggled his politics and his public relations, and while I don't like either, I have to be grateful for the quality of lawyer, and individual, who emerged as the nominee."b"We have to decide whether the unfortunate tradition begun with Robert Bork's nomination should be continued indefinitely or whether, with the wisdom of hindsight, we exhume it only when absolutely warranted. Liberals among us have got to get real -- to press for the finest jurists a conservative administration is willing to offer, and to spend our capital in that pursuit."b'Op-Ed Contributor Caren Deane Thomas is a lawyer in private practice.'b"American marines are a proud, tough bunch. They expect to be sent into the most dangerous battles and expect enemy fighters to come at them with everything they have. But they also expect, and have every right to expect, the Pentagon to provide them with the most effective armor available to maximize their chances of staying alive and in one piece. An investigative article in Saturday's Times by our colleague Michael Moss makes painfully clear that the Pentagon has let these brave warriors down."b'A secret Defense Department study reveals that more extensive armor, of a kind available since 2003, could have saved the lives of some 80 percent of the marines killed by upper body wounds in Iraq between 2003 and 2005. That amounts to scores of needlessly lost lives -- hundreds if Army deaths attributable to inadequate armor are counted as well. The ceramic armor plates in question cost about $260 a set.'b'Marines in the field have been clamoring for additional body armor (and vehicle armor) almost since the Iraq war began. Military officials initially turned them down because of concerns that the added weight might constrict movement. Once the study results came in last summer, Marine Corps leaders belatedly reversed themselves and started speeding armor to the troops.'b'Still, as of last month, less than 10 percent of the 28,000 sets of armor plates on order had actually reached the Marines in Iraq. Similar delays have plagued deliveries of improved vehicle armor. And the much larger Army contingent in Iraq has faced even more extensive delays.'b'The Pentagon buys some truly wondrous space-age weaponry with its half-trillion-dollar annual budgets. If the cold war ever resumes, the American military will certainly be prepared. Meantime, surely enough spare change can be found in that vast budget to accelerate deliveries of lifesaving armor to the marines and soldiers coming under fire today, and every day, in Iraq.'b"A hallmark of American popular culture is an unquenchable nostalgia for old, familiar ways of life that even old people are not familiar with anymore. There is great love for the classic downtown, for example, where moms and pops have shops on Main Street and sidewalks teem with children and hopscotch grids. Never mind that we don't live that way, except on TV and in Thomas Kinkade paintings. We are much more likely to inhabit a world where big-box stores and subdivisions form wagon rings around dead or dying central downtowns. The standard American residential landscape is like a soulless doughnut, and most of us are mere sprinkles."b"Except in places like Westchester. This county is suburban to the core, but it also has downtowns that thrive even without Staples and Wal-Mart, places with foot traffic and homegrown entrepreneurs, all the signs of good civic health that municipal leaders farther upstate and in bleaker parts of the nation's midsection pray for nightly. As Jennifer Medina recently explained in this section, once-barren streets are humming with business again. Mom and Pop are back, looking as if they haven't aged a bit."b'But they did become Latino.'b'The good news for downtown businesses is a direct consequence of recent immigration trends. It is one of the silver linings to what many people devoutly insist is a dark cloud: the surging influx of workers from Mexico and Central and South America that has transformed workplaces and industries around the country while creating a political and social uproar.'b'Westchester is hardly free of these tensions. But the mood here seems positively tranquil compared with other parts of the country. While violence flares in Long Island and elsewhere in the country, Westchester is going about its business, tapping the energy and financial means of Latino immigrants to kick-start the capitalist machinery.'b'Ms. Medina found many examples, like an Ecuadorean accountant, Pedro Urgil\xc3\xa8s, whose shop in Sleepy Hollow started by offering tax help and has since branched into a full-service five-and-dime, offering everything from notary services to socks to hometown newspapers and magazines. In New Rochelle, Alida Yougez, a native of Jalisco, Mexico, owns Union Avenue Liquors and fills a competitive niche rarely seen on this side of the border, selling 185 kinds of tequila.'b'It\'s unfortunate, though, that the Latino boom has remained an insular phenomenon. While the chamber of commerce in Ossining estimates that Latino immigrants own nearly a third of businesses there, only a handful belong to the chamber. One official told Ms. Medina that because of language barriers and other reasons, many Caucasians "won\'t go" to Latino-owned stores.'b"If so, it is the Caucasians' loss. Quimbaya's, a brightly painted shop on Main Street in Ossining that sells a heart-stirring array of Colombian coffee, seems like an ideal spot for a melancholy immigrant to spend a gray winter afternoon. But it is impossible to see how even the yuppiest Anglo would not benefit as well, and feel lucky to have that shop in town. The immigration phenomenon cuts several ways, usually to everyone's benefit.   LAWRENCE DOWNES"b'The United States abolished the practice of owning and selling human beings when the 13th Amendment was ratified in 1865. But the commercial component of slavery was in some ways the easiest to dispense with. The systems of black powerlessness and white supremacy that supported the enterprise proved to be far more pernicious. They persisted for another 100 years in the Deep South, enforced by lynching, disenfranchisement and state-sanctioned racial terror.'b'By the rise of the civil rights movement, many black Southerners had been so thoroughly conditioned to be subservient that they dared not look white people in the eye, much less seek the right to vote. This posture was understandable in the Deep South, where racial violence had been a kind of blood sport. But it seemed out of place in states like North Carolina, which was not as closely associated with hard-core brutality as were states like Mississippi and Alabama.'b'This rosy version of Carolina history turns out to have its bloody side. A draft of a voluminous report commissioned by the North Carolina legislature has recently outlined a grotesquely violent and stridently racist version of state history that rivals anything ever seen in the most troubled parts of the Deep South. The report, by the Wilmington Race Riot Commission, has thrown a klieg light onto a coup and riot that were staged in Wilmington, N.C., in 1898 -- and that still have an evident impact on the political landscape of the state.'b'The uprising was engineered by white supremacists who unseated a government that had been elected by an alliance that included black citizens and white progressives. Scores of black citizens were killed during the uprising -- no one yet knows how many -- and prominent blacks and whites were banished from the city under threat of death. White supremacists eventually hijacked the state government, stripped black citizens of the right to vote and brought black political participation to a close.'b'The events outlined in the report provide a ready explanation for why black people in North Carolina remained politically docile for so long and why the civil rights movement was so slow to reach them. The speed with which the coup and the accompanying riot were papered over and swept from public awareness reminds us what a powerful force cultural amnesia can be in shaping how we see history.'b'The Wilmington coup was unique in its scope and planning. But in general terms, it provided the template for how white communities in many parts of the country would respond when faced with the sudden rise of a black professional class that owned property and competed openly with white businesses. In the early 20th century, fear of black independence and self-determination would lead to white vigilante actions in communities like Tulsa, Okla., followed by expulsions of influential black people.'b'Like their counterparts elsewhere, white supremacists in Wilmington found themselves faced with an economically vibrant community, where a strong black professional class was publicly asserting itself in very visible ways. In addition to owning impressive businesses, black citizens had joined forces with like-minded whites to bring a progressive government to power both in the city and at the state level.'b'White racists were particularly outraged at the large black political presence in Wilmington, where black people could be found at just about all levels of government. Among the more visible black figures at the time was John Campbell Dancy, collector of customs at the Port of Wilmington, who was appointed by the Republican president, William McKinley. That Dancy was very well paid -- and that he replaced a white Democrat -- was an endless source of irritation among whites in the city. Dancy was ridiculed by some in the white press, who referred to him as "Sambo of the Customs House."'b'The proponents of the insurrection found ready allies in the press -- most notably The News and Observer -- which inflamed the public through editorials and political cartoons that depicted white manhood being trod upon by mere Negroes, who were, it was said, better suited to be slaves. The plotters and their minions in the press were further angered by a famously incendiary editorial written by the black journalist Alexander Manly of The Daily Record of Wilmington. Manly, descended from a white former governor and a black slave, knew a great deal about sexual hypocrisy in North Carolina society. He brought that knowledge to bear in an editorial attacking a speaker who had urged the lynching of black men to prevent them from seeking sex with white women.'b"Manly escaped Wilmington before he could be caught and lynched. But his newspaper's office was burned, heralding a long period of voicelessness for the black community in both the city and the state. As the full scope of what the plotters had in mind became clear, black people by the hundreds left the city, taking their ideas and commercial energies elsewhere. The city has yet to recover from the exodus."b"The riot commission is circulating a draft version of its report (which has also been posted on the Web at www.ah.dcr.state.nc.us), and hopes to find descendants of blacks and whites who fled Wilmington for places like Washington and New York. The draft report has already begun to pull back the covers on a brutal but little-known episode in Southern history. If the commission's progress so far is any measure of things to come, the final report will make an even more impressive contribution to public understanding of this period."b"Judicial nominations are not always motivated by ideology, but the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito certainly was. President Bush's previous choice to fill Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's seat on the Supreme Court, Harriet Miers, was hounded into withdrawing by the far right, primarily because she appeared to hold moderate views on a variety of legal issues. President Bush placated Ms. Miers's conservative critics by nominating Judge Alito, who has long been one of their favorites."b'Judge Alito\'s confirmation hearings begin tomorrow. He may be able to use them to reassure the Senate that he will be respectful of rights that Americans cherish, but he has a lengthy and often troubling record he will have to explain away. As a government lawyer, he worked to overturn Roe v. Wade. He has disturbing beliefs on presidential power -- a critical issue for the country right now. He has worked to sharply curtail Congress\'s power to pass laws and protect Americans. He may not even believe in "one person one vote."'b"The White House has tried to create an air of inevitability around Judge Alito's confirmation. But the public is skeptical. In a new Harris poll, just 34 percent of those surveyed said they thought he should be confirmed, while 31 percent said he should not, and 34 percent were unsure. Nearly 70 percent said they would oppose Judge Alito's nomination if they thought he would vote to make abortion illegal -- which it appears he might well do."b"If President Bush had chosen a pragmatic, mainstream conservative like Justice O'Connor to fill the seat, these confirmation hearings would be a breeze. But now, the Senate has a duty to delve into the many areas in which Judge Alito's record suggests he is an extremist, including:"b'Abortion -- Judge Alito has not only opposed Roe v. Wade, he has also worked to overturn it. When he applied for a promotion in the Reagan administration in 1985, he wrote that he was "particularly proud" of his legal arguments "that the Constitution does not protect a right to an abortion." In meetings with senators, Judge Alito has talked about his respect for Roe, but he has said nothing to discourage his supporters on the religious right who back him because they believe he will vote to overturn it. The American people have a right to know, unambiguously, where Judge Alito stands on Roe.'b"Presidential Power -- The continuing domestic wiretapping scandal shows that the Bush administration has a dangerous view of its own powers, and the Supreme Court is the most important check on such excesses. But Judge Alito has some disturbing views about handing the president even more power. He has argued that courts interpreting statutes should consider the president's intent when he signed the law to be just as important as Congress's intent in writing and passing the law. It is a radical suggestion that indicates he has an imperial view of presidential power."b"Congressional Power -- While Judge Alito seems intent on expanding the president's power, he has called for sharply reducing the power of Congress. In United States v. Rybar, he wrote a now-infamous dissent arguing that Congress exceeded its power in passing a law that banned machine guns. As a Reagan administration lawyer, he argued that Congress did not have the power to pass the Truth in Mileage Act to protect consumers from odometer fraud."b'One Person One Vote -- Judge Alito said in his 1985 application that he had become interested in constitutional law as a student partly because of his opposition to the Warren court\'s reapportionment rulings, which created the "one person one vote" standard. He seems to still have believed as a 35-year-old lawyer that these cases, which made legislative districts much more fair, came out the wrong way.'b"There are other areas -- including civil rights, sex discrimination, the environment and criminal law -- where Judge Alito's record appears extreme. The Senate should question him closely on all of them."b"The Senate should also explore Judge Alito's honesty. According to a senator he met with, he tried to dismiss his statement about the Constitution's not protecting abortion as merely part of a job application, which suggests he will bend the truth when it suits his purposes. Judge Alito has said he does not recall being in an ultraconservative group called Concerned Alumni of Princeton, which opposed co-education and affirmative action. That is odd, since he boasted of his membership in that same 1985 job application. The tortuous history of his promise to Congress to recuse himself in cases involving the Vanguard companies, which he ultimately failed to do, should also be explored."b"Judge Alito's nomination is often presented as an abortion rights showdown, but it is much more than that. Those who care about the broad range of rights and liberties that Americans now have, and about honesty in government, should tune into the hearings starting tomorrow -- and call their senators with their reactions to what they hear."b'Here is my life on the Long Island Rail Road, compressed.'b'To go to work, I take the train.'b'To take the train, I park at the station.'b'To park at the station, I look for a space.'b'This is not as easy as it could be. In fact, it is often a pitiable exercise that involves circling the full garage at my preferred station -- Huntington, on the Port Jefferson line -- finding nothing, rapidly recalculating my vanishing options, trying to decide between a fruitless dash to another station down the line or racing to a distant overflow lot and sprinting back, and knowing that either way, whether in Huntington, Cold Spring Harbor or last-resort Hicksville, I will end up loping across vast savannas of asphalt, clambering up stairs and down, hearing the maddening warning jingle of the train doors closing and spitting curses as I watch the red taillights shrink to little spiteful dots as the 8:55 rumbles on toward Manhattan, without me on it.'b"It's not the railroad's fault. It's mine, for squandering precious minutes on sleep and on taking my daughter to school. Earlier riders can readily find parking at Huntington, and later arrivals can, too, because lobster-shifters heading home usually open up spaces by 9:15 or so. But people in the in-between cohort -- in Huntington, the 8:22 and 8:55 crowd -- have it much harder."b"It's different when you miss the train going home. That's just an irritating delay, easily numbed at Penn Station with a bag of popcorn and a little screw-top bottle of wine. But missing the morning train means little fits of panic while your undercaffeinated brain struggles, Pooh-like, to comprehend the implications for the rest of the day."b"When you get to Huntington with little time to park, you have to think fast: the garage is probably full, but do you race up there to make sure? The next station down, Cold Spring Harbor, is a long shot, because it's packed even tighter than Huntington with a higher class of vehicle -- obscenely huge Hummers and other S.U.V.'s in impenetrable rows, some parked illegally over the curb, others up on the grass, like a sumo picnic."b'The station after that, Syosset, is not an option -- my parking permit is no good and there is no room anyway -- which leaves Hicksville, which has some street parking after 9 a.m. and a $6 pay lot.'b"Not that I'm ever likely to head off a missed train there. In a decade of commuting I've done it only once. Racing late to the 8:55 a few days ago, and feeling the recklessness that comes when there is no hope, I decided to chase it to Hicksville. I bypassed Huntington at 8:53, sailed through Woodbury, found the Hicksville pay lot wide open, paid fast with exact change -- a five and a one -- then ran in a gasping dead sprint through a maze of cars and across Route 106, up the escalator and onto my 8:55, which by then was the Hicksville 9:15."b'I had a moment or two of joyous wonderment; I had pulled off a feat I had long thought was impossible. Then I realized why. The train had been three minutes late.   LAWRENCE DOWNES'b"Urbana, Ill. - MOZART'S skull may or may not have been rediscovered, and you probably didn't even know it was missing."b'Today, live on Austrian state television, scientists from the Institute for Forensic Medicine in Innsbruck will declare definitively whether the skull held by the International Mozarteum Foundation in Salzburg in fact belonged to the man whom many consider the most sublime composer who ever lived. In what reads like a pilot for a new spinoff -- "CSI: Tyrol" -- forensic pathologists, employing the highest of high biotech, compared genetic material scraped from the mystery Sch\xc3\xa4del with DNA gathered from the thigh bones of Mozart\'s grandmother and niece.'b'The results, determined last year and "100 percent verified" by a United States Army laboratory, have been held secret for the broadcast of the documentary "Mozart: The Search for Evidence" on this first weekend in the 250th year of Mozart\'s birth. After a quarter of a millennium, the bones of a man pitched into a common grave are suddenly world news.'b"Doctors, chemists and forensic pathologists have been prodding at the skull since it was acquired by the Mozarteum more than a century ago, hoping to shed light on the composer's mysterious last illness and death. The skull has come to embody the flurry of myths that swirl around this most inexplicable of humans. In every decade, researchers have vied for the last word about the man's death: rheumatic fever, Henoch-Sch\xc3\xb6nlein syndrome, manic depression, infectious disease aggravated by bad medical treatment, a hematoma caused by a fall or blow to the head or even (the perennial popular favorite) murder."b"These investigators have probed the skull as if its evidence might render Mozart's mind-boggling musical ability more understandable and thus less disturbing. That the skull exists separately from the skeleton at all is testimony to the 19th-century cutting-edge science of phrenology, and the habit among budding phrenologists of going about collecting the heads of geniuses."b'This story follows another of a month ago, when researchers at the Energy Department\'s Argonne National Laboratory announced "solid evidence" that Beethoven suffered from lead poisoning. Fragments of Beethoven\'s skull (confirmed, of course, by mitochondrial DNA comparison with Beethoven\'s hair) were scanned by X-rays from the lab\'s Advanced Photon Source, which, according to a press release, "provides the most brilliant X-rays in the Western Hemisphere." (A test of such importance is clearly not to be outsourced.)'b'The test revealed large samples of lead concentration in Beethoven\'s bone sample, relative to a control. The Argonne team hinted tantalizingly that the accumulation of lead might account for the change in Beethoven\'s personality and music from his early 20\'s onward. Jay Leno\'s take: "Hopefully, the Beethoven family now finally has some closure."'b'Diagnosing art\'s unsolved mysteries with state-of-the-art medical knowledge is irresistible. The speculations arise in every season: Oscar Wilde\'s skin condition resulted from hair dyes; Van Gogh suffered from xanthopsia induced by digitalis; Dostoyevsky owed his visionary power to epilepsy; Pick\'s disease produced Ravel\'s "Bolero"; the Mona Lisa\'s unusual facial musculature came from Bell\'s palsy. But our present obsession with science\'s ability to solve crimes and put ancient mysteries to rest has become epidemic.'b"Three of the country's top 10 television shows feature forensic pathologists, and forensic science has become one of the hot undergraduate degrees. We are fed a steady diet of sensational, horrific, aura-filled, definitive revelations about unsolved mysteries that only our latest technologies can provide. We have always wanted to speak with the dead, and now we have more and better tools for listening than ever."b'Small wonder, then, that the DNA analysis of Mozart\'s putative skull has captured international imaginations. No doubt many in the audience for "Mozart: The Search for Evidence" will hope that if the skull indeed turns out to be Mozart\'s, the Europeans will clone him before the South Koreans do. Others will hope that another of our old secular relics, placed under our ever-improving scopes, might tell us where our culture came from, even as the audience for that culture vanishes into a sea of crime investigation shows.'b"For my part, I am hoping that cutting-edge molecular biology will tell us that the Mozarteum's skull bears no relation at all to Mozart's grandmother and niece, that the cranium belonged, with 100 percent certainty, to no one in particular -- to some other member of that old common grave. Even if DNA analysis does succeed in confirming the skull's identity, it will lay to rest exactly zero of the mysteries still surrounding Mozart. Nor will any future advances in science ever put to rest the unsolved Mozart, the inexplicable genius, that most troubles and transforms us."b'If you are really looking for messages from beyond the grave, for a connection with the hidden past, or for sensational, horrific, aura-filled revelations of life and death, you could do worse than listen to the Commendatore\'s words, in "Don Giovanni," when he comes back to tell the Don truths neither confirmed nor yet disproved by medical science:'b'Non si pasce di cibo mortale  Chi si pasce di cibo celeste'b"Those who partake of heavenly food do not need the mortal stuff. What can the bones know that the notes don't? Forget the forensics and face the music. The mysteries hidden in Mozart's skull are everywhere for the hearing."b'Op-Ed Contributor Richard Powers is the author, most recently, of the novel "The Time of Our Singing."'b"Before the first bill or even the first official speech in this year's legislative session in Albany, the three men who run New York's state government called for the cameras. Once the lights were on full, and the microphone canted in their general direction, Gov. George Pataki; the Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno; and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, announced the creation of three new Empire Zones around the state. One would be in Nassau County, one in Livingston County and one in Chinatown."b'If they beamed like rich patrons handing out post-holiday goodies, that is because that was just what they were doing: doling out one of the best tax breaks that New York State has to offer.'b'Which raises this question: Will these new zones create jobs, or will they do little more than reward political cronies, as too many of them have done in the past?'b'Empire Zones were created 20 years ago to stimulate long-term economic growth in distressed communities. It was and is an excellent idea, if it works the way it was intended to work. But two years ago, in a random sampling of Empire Zones across the state, Comptroller Alan Hevesi and his auditors reported a series of failures in the oversight and operation of these zones.'b'One notable example was a real estate company in Syracuse that created one job at an annual salary of $26,000 but claimed a tax credit of more than $250,000. Another was a Rochester company that added one $10,000-a-year position and got a tax credit of $137,000. As Mr. Hevesi noted: "Giving companies tax breaks is giving away real money."'b'Although the comptroller has said he intends to continue checking on how the 75 zones operate, it is not clear, really, whether the Empire Zone program has improved since his audit. Only one important thing has really changed: the way that these zones are handed out across the state.'b"Previously the governor's appointees controlled the awards. Now the governor and the two legislative leaders decide among themselves who gets these valuable tax breaks, which is why each man had a reason to smile for the cameras last week. Mr. Silver was especially relieved that his own district finally earned its bonus. Chinatown and the Lower East Side of Manhattan lost over 50,000 jobs after Sept. 11, 2001, but Mr. Silver noted sourly that it took four years for his district to get the help it deserved."b'Maybe it is better for three politicians to control who gets these rewards, instead of just one. But the bottom line should always be not who has the clout to distribute these useful benefits, but which blighted areas can best use them.'b"BEGINNING this week, New York City's fourth graders will take the state's standardized tests in reading and writing. Many people are looking forward to a repeat of last year when the city celebrated a nearly 10 percent increase in fourth-grade reading scores. But not everyone is sharing in the anticipation."b"Luis Castro, a 12-year-old from the Dominican Republic, is worried that he will not pass the test and thus be forced to repeat the fourth grade, again. Like so many over-age immigrant students at the school he attends on the Lower East Side, Luis is as tall as most seventh graders, has an incipient mustache and is tired of being teased. Worse, he's afraid of disappointing his parents, who, like so many other immigrants, have pinned their hopes on their children."b'New York City schools base their decision on whether to promote students entirely on results from the state achievement exams. But these tests, which are written for native English speakers, discriminate against those who are still learning the language.'b'Luis is a perfect case in point. His schoolwork shows that he has made significant progress since September and that he has met state standards in the work he has completed. But when Luis takes state tests, he is unable to quickly comprehend what he reads in English, and that hurts his performance. Even by conservative estimates, immigrant children like Luis account for close to half the student population in public schools across New York State.'b'Doing well isn\'t simply a matter of knowing English. Standardized tests measure children\'s knowledge of "cognitive academic language," or the language of a highly literate population. Students in middle-class areas like the Upper East Side, the Upper West Side, Park Slope and Riverdale are well versed in this language.'b'But students in Washington Heights, Corona, East Brooklyn and other low-income, immigrant communities do not read, write or speak this language fluently. In most cases, neither their parents nor other adults they come in contact with speak this language to them, and yet, they are required to learn it to pass state tests and be promoted. Their test scores reflect the fact that often they must literally translate as they work, either from their native language to English, or from the version of English they speak in their minority community to cognitive academic English.'b"The solution to this problem, already used by many schools and districts in other parts of the country, is to use a student's body of work, or portfolio, as an additional means of assessment. Where standardized tests alone reveal only the language differences of students, a growing body of research shows that a combination of formal tests and informal assessments can indicate their progress. Portfolios, in particular, capture both the process and products of students' learning and reflect their multiple languages, multiple intelligences and multiple abilities."b'Perhaps even more important, an approach that includes portfolios would not only improve assessments of immigrant students, but would also help ensure that they receive a good education. Portfolios reveal what is being taught and help to ensure that teachers regularly observe and document the learning of each student.'b"Skeptics may ask: Couldn't schools, under pressure to show progress, simply rubber-stamp portfolios regardless of quality? No, because, just as with statewide tests, there are clear, codified standards for judging portfolios. In math, for example, young children must demonstrate counting, numeration and data-analysis skills."b"But couldn't teachers or parents polish up a child's portfolio to make it look more impressive than it really is? That's probably true, just as it's true for any homework assignment, but the student would still be required to take standardized tests, which would reveal any discrepancies."b"Georgia, Hawaii, Tennessee and Virginia have been among the leaders in adopting standards-based testing programs using portfolios and alternative assessments for bilingual students and those with limited English proficiency. Even though the state achievement tests are scheduled for this week, it's not too late for New York City schools to follow the lead of these states. In making their promotion decisions, individual schools can elect to use portfolios and other assessments to determine the fate of any child."b'Researchers and the courts have repeatedly found that exclusively using any single assessment tool to determine the promotion or graduation of bilingual students is discriminatory. Until New York State creates a collection of formal tests and informal assessments that are truly comprehensive, ZIP codes, family income and socioeconomic status will continue to be strong indicators of graduation and promotion rates. New York should stop sorting students along these lines and create a comprehensive system that measures and celebrates the diversity of what all students know and can do.'b"Op-Ed Contributor Evangeline Harris Stefanakis is an associate research scholar and faculty member in international and transcultural studies at Columbia's Teachers College."b'Paris - "WHAT\'S going on over there?" my foreign friends have been asking me, concerned about the news coming from France. A justified worry: our impoverished suburbs, or banlieues, were the scene, starting on Oct. 27 and stretching into November, of an urban agitation that turned to a riot. There were thousands of burned cars, public buildings looted, confrontations with the police, a state of emergency that ended only on Wednesday. Paris and then the provinces were affected; we hadn\'t seen anything like these disturbances since the famous uprising of May 1968. What has happened to the picture-postcard Paris that was the setting for "Am\xc3\xa9lie"?'b"The experience has put all of France into a funk, even with the lifting of the state of emergency after New Year's passed relatively peacefully (cars were set afire, but not substantially more than in previous years). In truth, though, people, who -- like me -- live in the center of Paris, didn't really see that much; they watched the spectacle of the disorder on television. They discovered places they ordinarily wouldn't even be able to find on a map: ghettoes where France has relegated immigrants and their descendants, gloomy blocks that resemble bombed-out sections of Chechnya. They learned that high unemployment (close to 40 percent in some places), racism, drugs, disastrous urban policy and police brutality were making everything worse."b'But no one has been truly astonished by the violence. "It was bound to happen," as my local bookseller, who lives in the suburbs, says. What surprised -- and relieved -- Parisians was that Paris proper was mostly spared: the Eiffel Tower is still there, the Arc de Triomphe hasn\'t budged, thank goodness.'b'The reality is that Paris and its "difficult" banlieues are two worlds that are completely foreign to each other. They don\'t even speak the same language: polished, accent-free French on one side, the verlan, or "reversed" speech, of the housing projects on the other. The suburbs are on fire? So? The Left Bank intellectuals didn\'t have much to do with these rioters without demands and without leaders.'b'Away from the banlieues, everything stayed calm, in contrast with the image of France portrayed in the foreign news media. "Paris Is Burning!" was a common headline; a major German newspaper predicted that the intifada was imminent. The Americans and the British covered the violence with as much avidity as some of them had denounced the French decision not to fight in Iraq; was France, they asked with glee, going to be forced to wage its own battle with Islam? We French expected a little more empathy considering the 1992 Los Angeles riots, when the authorities responded in force, and the city experienced curfews, 8,000 arrests, and scores of deaths.'b'In France, the death toll was almost nonexistent, perhaps because, as the saying goes, "Here, everything ends with songs" -- that is, it all works out in the end. Still, an arsenal of repression was put in place. It has a rather unpleasant name, the state of emergency, established by a 1955 law that sought to restore order in French-controlled Algeria, racked by violence in the years before it won independence.'b'This legal parenthesis brought searches without warrants, curfews, restrictions on comings and goings. All in all, though, the authorities were prudent in the use of these extraordinary powers, even in the banlieues; to say that France suffered under the yoke of oppression during the state of emergency would be an exaggeration, and the French, fatalists for the most part, protested little.'b'Nonetheless, those few weeks of violence left us bitter. The riots were undoubtedly a reflection of French failure. Failure of the politicians, yes: Jacques Chirac, president since 1995, has been unable to reform society. But also failure of the "French model," which asserts that all inequalities, all differences, can be resolved in that shopworn religion called the Republic. Today all France, even the middle classes, suffers from a feeling that things won\'t get better, from an inability to make plans for the future. It\'s the big topic at dinner parties.'b'Fortunately, in Paris there is always something to do when one is feeling blue. Everyone in town has been talking about an exhibition at the Grand Palais consecrated to  melancholy. Whether called melancholy, or ennui, depression or "spleen," this sensation was wonderfully defined by Victor Hugo as "the enjoyment of being sad." Welcome to Paris, city of melancholy. You have until Jan. 16 to visit the exhibition. Otherwise, you\'ll have to go to, well, the suburbs.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Corinne Maier is the author of "Bonjour, Laziness: Jumping Off the Corporate Ladder." This article was translated by The Times from the French.'b'ABOUT a year ago, the New York State Legislature made a number of revisions to the Rockefeller drug laws. The most significant changes involved reducing sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, raising the amount of drugs required for top-level possession charges and allowing defendants serving a life term to apply for a reduced sentence. The primary goal was to grant low-level drug dealers relief from overly harsh sentences.'b'These measures were a step in the right direction, but unfortunately they fail to take into account drug kingpins. As the new legislative session begins this month, the priority should be to retain severe sentencing for major drug dealers while providing more alternatives to incarceration and more treatment options for low-level addicts and small-time dealers.'b'To do this, we must provide judges with greater discretion in determining which defendants should be placed in alternative sentencing and treatment programs. We must pass legislation that provides for more such programs. And we must enact a kingpin statute to ensure that major and violent drug predators are sentenced appropriately and cannot have their sentences reduced.'b"I was the judge who presided over many of New York City's most serious drug cases in the 1980's and 90's. In a number of these cases, judges, after a resentencing hearing mandated by the changes to the Rockefeller drug laws, have recently reduced these sentences -- inappropriately so."b'For example, I sentenced a violent drug dealer to more than 33 years in prison. He had sold crack and heroin on the Lower East Side of Manhattan for years and threatened to send the two lead detectives\' children back to them "in a box." He recently had his sentence reduced by a judge who apparently based his decision on the defendant\'s somewhat positive prison record. If I had not been retired from the bench, I would have heard his request for resentencing and been highly unlikely to have granted it.'b'On the other hand, many defendants should never have been sentenced under the original draconian Rockefeller drug laws. For example, as in many cases, I once placed a defendant, who was charged with possession of cocaine and faced a sentence of 25 years to life, in a rehabilitation program because it was his first and only offense and the prosecutor consented. In the program, he took classes and received counseling and job training for two years, followed by another two years of supervision. Since then, he has become a productive, law-abiding member of society.'b"Under the current laws, the prosecutor's consent is still required in many cases before a defendant can be placed in a rehabilitation program. But judicial discretion in sentencing is critical. Judges, not prosecutors, must be allowed to determine which defendants are eligible for alternatives to incarceration. Why judges? Because they are not advocates but neutral arbiters who seek to impose an appropriate penalty in each individual case."b'There must be adequate, meaningful treatment programs from which a court can choose. Many defendants in serious drug cases must be required to plead guilty before being placed in such a program. The administrators of the program must report regularly to the court. And it is essential that the court continue to monitor the defendant, and that the program provides support.'b'If the defendant completes the program successfully, the court should have the discretion to reduce or dismiss the charges in some cases. This is the ultimate incentive for treatment and rehabilitation.'b'Programs like Abraham House provide counseling, job training, education and re-entry support in addition to substance abuse treatment. Of those who have completed that program, less than 1 percent have returned to jail. And the best part of all this is that by sending fewer people to jail, we can use the money saved to finance similar programs, giving hope to those who need it.'b"But we cannot forget the other side of the drug industry -- the violent kingpins. A kingpin statute is a necessary component of any drug-law reform. Sentences for kingpins shouldn't be reduced except in rare instances. And if the original sentencing judge is unavailable to consider a resentencing application, perhaps a panel of three judges where the majority rules would be appropriate."b'In most criminal justice legislation, too often politics prevents the Senate and the Assembly from agreeing to meaningful reform. To make passage of drug reform legislation more likely and to monitor its effects, I propose a "sunset" clause, which would require periodic assessments of these reforms and a review in three to five years to evaluate their effectiveness and to determine if the legislation should be renewed.'b'In our system there is a place for tough sentencing, a place for leniency and a place for rehabilitation. We have reached one of our goals in the reduction of the sentences for some drug offenders, although not always the appropriate ones. But breaking the cycle of recidivism and violence will continue to be a challenge.'b'Westchester Leslie Crocker Snyder, a former New York State Court of Claims judge, was a candidate for Manhattan district attorney in the 2005 Democratic primary.'b"As the freshly anointed Speaker of the City Council, Christine Quinn has been enjoying a buoyant honeymoon. New Yorkers seem to have taken notice that for the first time a woman -- and an openly gay one -- has taken the council helm. Praise has been generous from almost all sides, including the council's Republican minority. That means expectations are also high for the possibilities her new leadership of the 51-member council brings."b"New Yorkers will look to Ms. Quinn to help provide a healthy counterweight to the powerful executive branch. That will be important as the city struggles with issues as deep and difficult as security, education and waste disposal. It was reassuring to hear Ms. Quinn say she will work with the mayor on all fronts. That kind of cooperation will be vital in finding ways to better control illegal handguns in the city, in wresting long-overdue education funds from Albany and in putting into action the mayor's solid waste management plan."b"It's also important that she establish priorities independent of the county party bosses and other forces who helped to elevate her to speaker. The concern is no small one. Democratic leaders in Queens, the Bronx and Brooklyn helped engineer the near-unanimous vote; the lone abstainer was Charles Barron, from Brooklyn, who spoke for many New Yorkers when he took issue with the insider-only process."b"Of course, Ms. Quinn could not avoid the backroom politics if she wanted to be speaker. Now that she's at the controls, however, we hope she will steer the council toward more openness and democratic ideals and against special interests. It was troubling that among its final acts in the last session, the council lifted restrictions on campaign donations from labor unions. In so doing, the council -- which had long supported campaign finance reform -- started down a dangerous road to usurp the very laws it had helped to create. Public campaign financing has been good for New York and should be protected. Mending the relationship between members and the Campaign Finance Board would be a worthy priority for Ms. Quinn."b'The speaker should also do her best to turn the council around on the matter of term limits, which some members would extend from two terms to three by legislative fiat. The voters have twice endorsed the present limits and any change should be theirs to make.'b"It has always been distressing that much of the council's work is shrouded from everyday New Yorkers. Committee hearings are often hastily scheduled and rescheduled, limiting the public's voice. Ms. Quinn, who seems receptive to reform, would do well to study suggestions from the Citizens Union to make the legislative body more transparent, increase the responsibility and accountability of committees and their chairs and improve the budget process by making it more inclusive of rank-and-file council members."b"New Yorkers have reason to have high hopes for Ms. Quinn. She has a strong activist spirit and has always been good at working with communities at the grass roots level. Her straightforward manner should serve her well. She has said she wants her tenure to be one of big ideas. It's a goal worthy of the city she will help to lead."b'1. Without regard to how you will rule, tell us what you foresee today as the five most important legal issues that the Supreme Court will be asked to review in the next decade. Take "important" to mean that the issues raised hold the greatest potential consequence for the daily life of the nation and the development of our laws.'b'2. Since law school, you have worked almost exclusively for the government of the United States, which you have served in either the Department of Justice, or the judicial branch, where you worked first as a law clerk, and now as a judge. Do you regard this as an ideal pedigree for an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court? Why have you never chosen to work in the private or nonprofit sectors or to represent individual clients, an experience shared by the majority of the lawyers who will come before you? And point to five decisions you have made that should allay the concerns of those who believe that because of your monochromatic legal experience, you will be predisposed to favor the government in legal disputes with individuals, especially in criminal cases or cases concerning individual rights.'b'3. Name the five most difficult decisions you have had to make as a judge, where the correct answer to the issues posed seemed most elusive to you and the stakes to the parties or the nation were the highest.'b"4. Assume for the sake of this question that the Supreme Court concludes in the future that Roe v. Wade was wrongly decided, and that the Constitution does not protect a woman's right to have an abortion. Without stating how you would ultimately rule, but speaking simply as a constitutional expert, is there any constitutional provision that might reasonably be thought to reserve the right to regulate abortion to the states, as some Roe opponents contend? Put another way, if Roe was reversed, what constitutional provision might prevent federal efforts to impede or outlaw abortion, like statutes making it a crime to either cross state lines to seek an abortion or place in the stream of interstate commerce any medical device or implement knowing it is likely to be used for an abortion?"b'5. It is anticipated that you will decline to comment on cases and questions that you could be called upon to decide as a justice. But that scruple should not apply to cases that history teaches us are in all likelihood unique. Therefore, state how you would have ruled in the case of Bush v. Gore in December 2000. Beyond the principal decision, would you have joined the court\'s majority on Dec. 9, 2000, in voting to issue a stay, freezing the recount that had begun in response to the order of the Florida Supreme Court? If so, explain, with citation to supporting authorities, what "irreparable harm" part of the traditional legal formula for granting a stay, might have been done if the recount had continued while the United States Supreme Court was reviewing the lower court\'s order?'b'Op-Ed Contributor Scott Turow, a former federal prosecutor, is the author, most recently, of "Ordinary Heroes."'b'The Securities and Exchange Commission, under its chairman, Christopher Cox, took an important step in the fight against corporate malfeasance last week. By issuing guidelines on when and why it would impose fines, the commission added transparency to an oft-criticized process.'b"Fines against companies often hurt the same group that the initial fraud injured: shareholders. Thus imposing big fines not only can be unfair at times, it also can go against the S.E.C.'s mission to protect investors. Simply put, if the shareholders were harmed already, the S.E.C. should try not to harm them again."b'The new guidelines say the decision to levy a fine will hinge on whether the corporation and its shareholders were unjustly enriched. The commissioners provided examples by announcing the settlement of two actions.'b"The commission levied a $50 million penalty against a computer security company, McAfee Inc., because the company's overstatement of revenue and earnings inflated its share price and allowed it to acquire companies with its inflated stock. It did not levy a penalty against a smaller company where that wasn't the case."b"The new guidelines were unanimous, which is good. We're glad that Mr. Cox has the entire commission moving in one direction. His predecessor, William Donaldson, had a successful run at a trying time, but votes on fines were often split, which only fueled the attacks against those decisions."b'But the new guidelines will work only if the commissioners remain serious about pursuing punishment against top officers.'b'The Sarbanes-Oxley Act gives them wider powers to go after those officers. For example, the act requires that chief executives and chief financial officers forfeit bonuses and the proceeds from stock sales if they later restate their earnings because of misconduct.'b'That strikes us as pretty fair. Money earned under false pretenses should never have gone to the executives in the first place. Meanwhile, no one can claim that the business itself is being harmed. Most of all, this would force the officers at the top of the company to keep an eye on their financial statements or risk being hit where it hurts the most: in their pocketbooks.'b'1. Justice Robert Jackson of the Supreme Court once famously wrote, "We are not final because we are infallible, but we are infallible only because we are final." Is the Supreme Court really either? How should that affect the way a justice carries out his role? And, reflecting on the judicial role, why do you want to be on the Supreme Court?'b"2. Do you think judges are at least in part responsible for the fact that, while Americans might profess reverence for the law, they often criticize the legal system? Does some of the public's criticism stem from growing use of foreign and international sources of law by some judges in interpreting the meaning of the Constitution?"b'3. We hear much about the important role the Supreme Court plays in interpreting and applying the Bill of Rights. But does judicial enforcement of the structural features of our Constitution -- the separation of powers, federalism and the limits on Congress dictated by the enumeration of specific powers -- play an important role as well in preserving liberty?'b'4. Justice Felix Frankfurter, whom President Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed to the Supreme Court, often invoked the principle of judicial restraint. He also was quite skeptical of rigid application of precedent, saying that reversing decisions can be justified "if rooted in the Constitution itself" and that "acquiescence in a precedent does not require approval of its extension." Was Justice Frankfurter being inconsistent? Can a believer in judicial restraint also think that sometimes precedents, even longstanding ones, should be overruled?'b'5. During the Lincoln-Douglas debates, Stephen Douglas attacked Abraham Lincoln for refusing to submit to the Supreme Court\'s affirmation of slavery after the Dred Scott case, saying, "The Constitution of the United States provides that the Supreme Court is the ultimate tribunal." Is that true, or do the other branches of the federal government -- the president and Congress -- have the responsibility to exercise their own judgment as to constitutional meaning where they have the constitutional power to act?'b'Op-Ed Contributor Leonard A. Leo is the executive vice president of the Federalist Society and also has advised the George W. Bush administration and Congress on judicial matters.'b'1. In 1944, the Supreme Court affirmed the constitutionality of the internment of American citizens of Japanese descent. Justice Felix Frankfurter wrote in a concurring opinion that an action taken in wartime "is not to be stigmatized as lawless because like action in times of peace would be lawless." He and others in the majority believed that in times of war, security interests outweigh rights that would otherwise be controlling. Do you agree or disagree, and do you think that the issues raised by this event (for which the United States later apologized) are like or unlike the issues raised by the current detention of enemy combatants?'b'2. In 1995, the Supreme Court ruled in Rosenberger v. Rector that the University of Virginia could not refuse to finance an avowedly Christian student publication. The court reasoned that since other student publications favoring contested viewpoints were already getting university money, denying support to this one would constitute viewpoint discrimination, a violation of the Free Expression clause of the First Amendment. Critics of this decision pointed out that its logic implicitly declared the Establishment Clause, which singles out religion for special and negative attention, to be unconstitutional. Do you agree with this criticism, and if not, why not? To what extent (if any) are the Free Exercise and Establishment Clauses in tension with one another?'b'3. In a famous debate half a century ago, the legal theorists H. L. A. Hart and Lon Fuller differed on the question of whether Nazi law in Germany was, in fact, law. Hart argued that morally iniquitous laws that have a valid form -- laws that have emerged as the result of following legitimate procedures -- are still laws, even though we might want to say that they are bad laws. Fuller contended that a legal system devoted to evil aims could not be called law because there is "a necessary relationship between substantive justice and procedural justice." With which of these theorists are you in agreement? Are law and morality finally one or can they be distinguished? Were the laws denying the vote to women in America real laws or spurious laws?'b'4. The right of judicial review -- the right of courts to declare duly enacted laws unconstitutional -- is not explicitly granted in the Constitution, but was proclaimed (some would say fabricated) by John Marshall in Marbury v. Madison. One objection to judicial review has been that it is undemocratic because the decisions of democratically elected officials are overturned by jurists who have been appointed for life and who are, therefore, unaccountable to the judgments and desires of their fellow citizens. Do you think that judicial review can be defended and justified in the face of this objection? Is the practice of judicial review a violation of the separation of powers? Are judicial review and judicial restraint reconcilable or are they antithetical?'b'5. Sex offenders who have served their sentences are now required to register with the state, and in some jurisdictions there is talk of incarcerating such offenders beyond the term of their sentence if it is judged that they are likely to rape and molest again. Is the judicial system moving in the direction of creating a category of second-class citizens -- citizens with fewer rights than the rest of us -- on the basis of a perceived "tendency" to criminal activity? Is the fictional world of Philip K. Dick\'s story "Minority Report"-- in which people are arrested for crimes they have not yet committed -- becoming a reality in the United States? What constitutional concerns are raised by these developments?'b'Op-Ed Contributor Stanley Fish, a former chairman of the English department at Duke University, is a professor of law at Florida International University.'b"Freeport-McMoRan, an American company that operates a giant open-pit copper and gold mine in Papua, is a major contributor to Indonesia's economy. The company is also one of Indonesia's most reckless polluters and a source of hard cash -- cash the company concedes is protection money -- for the Indonesian military, which has one of the worst human rights records anywhere."b"A recent report in The Times by Jane Perlez and Raymond Bonner described Freeport's activities in great detail. The report was part of a series of articles over the past year detailing environmental and other abuses by American mining companies at home and abroad."b"Several of these companies are being sued by local governments that argue that these companies' environmental practices would never be tolerated in America and that local citizens are seeing too few of mining's benefits while paying too heavy a price. Newmont Mining, based in Denver, has been sued by the Indonesian government for dumping poisoned wastes in local waters, and Placer Dome, based in Canada, has been sued by a Philippine province for similar infractions."b"Freeport's activities are particularly disheartening. Over the past decade, the company has built what amounts to an industrial city in Indonesia's easternmost province. On the plus side, the company provides jobs for 18,000 people and, according to company estimates, has provided Indonesia with $33 billion in direct and indirect benefits from 1992 to 2004, almost 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product."b"The environmental damage, however, has been breathtaking. So far, the company has produced about one billion tons of waste, with five billion more tons to come before the operation shuts down. Some of this waste has been dumped into the mountains surrounding the mine, and some into a system of rivers that descend steeply into the island's low-lying wetlands and coastal estuaries. The damage has been enough to render the rivers, wetlands and parts of the estuaries -- all critical to the food chain -- unsuitable for aquatic life."b'Meanwhile, records show that between 1998 and 2004, Freeport gave officers in the police and military nearly $20 million in direct payments in addition to tens of millions more for military infrastructure like barracks and roads. The company told The Times that the payments were necessary to provide a secure working environment for its employees, and that "there is no alternative to our reliance on the Indonesian military and police."'b"Papua has long been home to a low-level, separatist insurgency against the central government, which made the company nervous. Yet what is missing from the company's response is any recognition that its environmental practices contributed to the unrest and allowed the military to establish a strong presence in a region where it had barely a toehold before Freeport arrived."b"Freeport's environmental record and its support for the Indonesian military have caused rumbles in Washington, particularly among human rights advocates like Patrick Leahy, a Democratic senator from Vermont. Citing human rights abuses, Congress in 1992 restricted arms sales and most American training for Indonesian officers, and it enacted new prohibitions in 1999 after a rampage by army-backed militia in what was then East Timor Province. Mr. Leahy sharply criticized Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's decision to resume aid last year, which the administration described as a reward for Indonesia's improved human rights record and its cooperation with the post-Sept. 11 counterterrorism campaign."b"Indonesia's critics say that the present government is an improvement over the authoritarian rule of President Suharto, who ran the country for three decades ending in 1998. Yet the military continues its abusive practices. Setting aside for the moment Freeport's environmental horror show, the company is not doing Indonesia's civilian authorities any favors by underwriting the generals. Freeport describes its payments as an essential cost of doing business. But it appears not to have measured the costs to democracy."b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'It is disturbing that President Bush has exhibited a grandiose vision of executive power that leaves little room for public debate, the concerns of the minority party or the supervisory powers of the courts. But it is just plain baffling to watch him take the same regal attitude toward a Congress in which his party holds solid majorities in both houses.'b'Seizing the opportunity presented by the Congressional holiday break, Mr. Bush announced 17 recess appointments -- a constitutional gimmick that allows a president to appoint someone when Congress is in recess to a job that normally requires Senate approval. The appointee serves until the next round of Congressional elections.'b'This end run around Senate confirmation was built into the Constitution to allow the president to quickly fill vacancies that came up when lawmakers were out of town, to keep the government running smoothly in times when travelers and mail moved by horseback and Congress met part time.'b"Modern presidents have employed this power to place nominees who ran into political trouble in the Senate. Presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton made scores of recess appointments. But both of them faced a Congress controlled by the opposition party, while the Senate has been under Republican control for Mr. Bush's entire five years in office."b"In some cases, Mr. Bush has used the recess appointment power to rescue egregiously bad selections that would never pass muster on grounds of experience and competence. (Remember last year's recess appointment of the undiplomatic and Congressionally unacceptable John Bolton as ambassador to the United Nations.) In other cases, he has merely sought to avoid logjams that the White House created for itself by refusing to accommodate reasonable Democratic requests for information, documents and consultation."b"Among those Mr. Bush unilaterally elevated to important posts this time around was Julie Myers, a government lawyer with ultrathin credentials whom Mr. Bush appointed to head the 15,000-person Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, the government's second largest investigative force."b'Also on the list was Ellen Sauerbrey, the unqualified political crony Mr. Bush chose to head the billion-dollar-a-year State Department office that helps coordinate emergency relief efforts for refugees abroad, and whose nomination had stalled for just cause in the Foreign Relations Committee.'b'Mr. Bush also bypassed Senate hearings on a new deputy defense secretary and for three of the six seats on the Federal Election Commission. The election commission appointees include Hans von Spakovsky, a Justice Department lawyer who overrode the objection of career lawyers to gain approval of a Georgia voter identification plan almost certain to harm black voters.'b"The White House regularly accuses Senate Democrats of unfairly blocking the president's nominees, and it is true that one determined senator can freeze an appointment. But Mr. Bush's record in this area owes less to unreasonable Democrats than to the low caliber of some of his choices, his disinterest in bipartisan consensus and his aversion to any form of accountability, whether to the Senate, the courts or the public."b"Editorial   Correction:  January 11, 2006, Wednesday  An editorial in Monday's Times about recess appointments by President Bush misstated the time that Republicans have controlled the Senate during Mr. Bush's tenure. The Democrats had a one-vote majority from May 2001, when a senator left the Republican Party, until after the 2002 elections. Thus the Republicans have controlled the Senate for about three and a half years, not five."b'1. You have advised the Senate that you will decide cases on the merits of the facts and the law, and not your personal views or preferences. Could you provide two examples of decisions you have rendered that were inconsistent with your personal views?'b'2. Given your November 2000 speech to the Federalist Society arguing that executive power is solely vested in the president, what role, if any, do you see for the Congress and the courts with respect to executive power?'b'3. You have told the Senate that you are open to the persuasive arguments of sound legal analysis. Can you give two examples of your judicial opinions that reflected a willingness to be persuaded to change your legal views based upon the legal arguments presented to you?'b"4. In light of your having been a member of a Princeton alumni group that opposed the university's admission of women, criticized its affirmative action policies and urged the admission of more alumni children, can you offer two examples of any efforts by you to promote gender or racial equality?"b'5. When applying for a job with the Reagan administration in the mid-1980\'s, you expressed disagreement with the "one person, one vote" principle embodied in the Supreme Court\'s decision in Reynolds v. Sims in 1964. Can you expand on the nature of your disagreement with this principle in this or other court decisions from the era involving voting districts and reapportionment?'b'Op-Ed Contributor Cheryl D. Mills, a former counsel to President Bill Clinton, is a professor at New York University Law School.'b'DURHAM, N.C. - AS the pilgrims in Mecca complete the annual ritual of pilgrimage today, Muslims across the globe will begin the Id al-Adha, the three-day Feast of Sacrifice, in solidarity with them.'b'For Muslims seeking to make sense of the annual pilgrimage, a question arises: is the hajj only an elaborate ritual?'b'Hajj literally means, "to continuously strive to reach one\'s goal." The rite of visiting the sacred sites need be completed only once in a lifetime, but its meaning ought to be enduring. Yet, no pilgrim can claim strictly to imitate the Prophet Muhammad in this ritual. Such despotic literalness would only invest the observance with fraudulence. Is the imagination not at the heart of pilgrimage?'b'Centuries ago, the Arabic literary figure and philosopher, Abu Hayyan al-Tawhidi, who died in 1023, mused about what the pilgrimage might have meant for those who could not make it to Mecca. Sadly, we can now only mourn the lost text of Tawhidi, but there is more than a hint in his title: "Undertaking the Mental Pilgrimage When the Physical Pilgrimage Is Impossible."'b'Exile, sacrifice and atonement underscore the commandment of pilgrimage in Muslim religious life. The faithful re-enact the pilgrimage rituals in imitation of their spiritual forbears. They relive exile by treading in the footsteps of Abraham. But the hajj also recalls the temporary exile of Adam and Eve, who wandered the earth after their expulsion from paradise. According to Muslim tradition, Adam and Eve reconciled with God in the desert of Arabia. The spot where they met each other again and atoned -- an obligatory destination for pilgrims -- is called Arafat, from the Arabic word \'arafa, "to know."'b"The theme of knowing and imagining the divine is embroidered through the trials of Abraham and his family. After Abraham's first child, Ishmael, was born to his slave wife Hagar, he was confronted by the jealousy of his other wife, Sarah, who was then childless. God upgraded this domestic squabble into a legacy issue for the Patriarch and his admirers. But he ordered the dutiful Abraham to banish Hagar and Ishmael to Arabia."b'Years later, Muslim tradition holds, Abraham reconciled with Hagar and Ishmael. But more trials awaited. This time Abraham had to do the unthinkable: sacrifice his son. Mainstream Muslim tradition believes that the son in question was Ishmael, while a minority view holds that it was Isaac, Sarah\'s son. But after a miraculous substitution of Ishmael (or Isaac) by a ram, Abraham\'s reputation was sealed as the "friend of God."'b'To express their loathing of evil, the pilgrims will participate in that ancient drama of Abraham and Ishmael. They will first stone three pillars, each symbolizing Satan\'s failed attempts to mislead Abraham\'s family. Then, in a place called Mina, meaning "desires," each pilgrim will sacrifice an animal. With this act they seek to replace their destructive desires with productive ones. Away from Mecca, non-pilgrims with means will also slaughter animals as a show of hospitality to friends, family and the indigent. Pilgrimage embodies exile by requiring seekers to suspend customary routine, enter new environments and live by new rhythms and rituals. For a limited time, pilgrims experience the transitions and dislocations exiles perpetually undergo. As a performance, the pilgrimage links people to a past shared by several Abrahamic traditions, just as, by bringing together Muslims from a great multiplicity of cultures, it celebrates the diversity of our common humanity. Pilgrims return home enriched by this cosmopolitan outlook, but with a new appreciation for their own origins.'b"In the 1980's, the Iranian revolution inspired some attempts to use the hajj as a platform to express Muslim grievances. But such efforts ended in 1987, when Iranian pilgrims clashed with Saudi authorities, resulting in carnage and mayhem."b'The more subtle political significance of the hajj, however, persists in the realm of the spiritual imagination. To play on the words of the poet Federico Garc\xc3\xada Lorca: the imagination hovers above ritual, the way fragrance hovers over a flower.'b'Pilgrimage ought to fire the imagination and celebrate transitions, creativity and innovation. And imagination is a weapon, one that tyrants and autocrats fear. If we find it in short supply in the corridors of power, that does not mean that the rest of us should be deprived of its constructive possibilities as well.'b'A prolific 13th century mystic, Ibn Arabi, wrote that pilgrims were mistaken if they believed that swarming like moths around the cube-like stone centerpiece, the Kaaba in the Holy Mosque, was the loftiest act of venerating God. Rather, noted Ibn Arabi, it was the human heart that deserved the highest sanctity. For neither the offerings made, nor the hardships endured, reaches the divine. Instead it is the compass of the heart that counts.'b'The heart symbolizes the inviolability of human dignity. But the supreme gift, Ibn Arabi artfully explains, is the imagination radiating from the heart. The fulcrum of the pilgrimage is also the essence of life: a caring heart fired by the imagination.'b'For instance, after paying homage to the two women Eve and Hagar in the rites of pilgrimage, how can some Muslims still violate the rights and dignity of women in the name of Islam? Is this not a contradiction? If the pilgrimage is done not by rote but with imagination, honor killings become unthinkably loathsome, a curse to be condemned like the Satan just stoned.'b'The truth of the imagination pertains today, not just for Tawhidi and Ibn Arabi, but also for all their contemporary successors who still believe the imagination to be the healing balm for our deeply troubled world.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Ebrahim Moosa, a professor of Islamic studies at Duke University, is the author of "Ghazali and the Poetics of Imagination."'b"The only surprise about Tom DeLay's decision to finally drop out of the House leadership is that it took so long for Congressional Republicans to realize that they needed to untie that rope from around their collective necks. Mr. DeLay's welcome decision to abandon his effort to remain the House majority leader came just as his colleagues were circulating a petition calling for his ouster."b"But it wasn't a sudden fit of ethics that seized the House Republicans. It was last week's guilty plea to corruption charges by Jack Abramoff, the Republican megalobbyist, and fear about which names Mr. Abramoff would drop in cooperating with federal prosecutors. The remaining questions for Mr. DeLay are whether he will be snared by Mr. Abramoff's net, whether he can beat the other criminal charges pending against him and whether his home district voters will do the rest of the country a favor in November and send Mr. DeLay back to private life."b"Republican Congressional leaders are now jousting over whether to support Roy Blunt of Missouri or John Boehner of Ohio for Mr. DeLay's old job -- neither of them likely to be the people's champion of bipartisanship or ethics. So mired are the Republicans in Mr. Abramoff's web that Mr. Blunt's and Mr. Boehner's first task will be to convince their colleagues that they won't be the next ones caught up in the scandal."b'Meanwhile, Speaker Dennis Hastert announced a plan to review the rules governing lawmakers\' dealings with lobbyists -- as if there is any legitimate debate left about whether the rules require sweeping changes. David Dreier, the California Republican in charge of this effort, said rather delicately that "recent events" would require the House "to take a closer look at the rules regarding members\' interactions with lobbyists."'b'Of course, any look at all would be more scrutiny than the House ethics rules have drawn recently. But even this rather meager agenda proved too much for some Republicans. No sooner had Mr. Hastert announced the new plan than some of his colleagues were dumping cold water on it. "Adding more new rules isn\'t the answer," Mr. Boehner said on the Fox News Channel -- an interesting perspective from a man who wants to replace Mr. DeLay.'b'Mr. Hastert and Mr. Dreier plan to meet with Senator John McCain, as well as a few Democrats, for discussions. It would behoove members of both parties to ignore Mr. Boehner and institute some real reform, fast.'b"AUSTIN, Tex. - THIS winter, Medicare recipients shouldn't limit their bargain-hunting to post-holiday blowout sales. Despite its serious deficiencies, the new Medicare prescription drug benefit offers a myriad of savings opportunities, which in my grandmother's case totaled more than $2,000 a year. By asking the right questions and comparing plans, the savvy consumer can save more with Medicare than at Macy's."b"The new federal benefit subsidizes drug costs for the 42 million Americans covered by Medicare. It's confusing and complex, but its bigger flaw is that it prohibits the government from negotiating Medicare drug prices with producers as the Veterans Administration does for our veterans. The plan's estimated $724 billion price tag over the next 10 years could have been substantially reduced had the government retained its bargaining power. Instead, the program allows the insurance industry to develop for-profit plans, leading to an overabundance of imperfect choices for the average Medicare recipient."b"Choosing a plan is an overwhelming and cumbersome task. While many patients lack the knowledge and skills to pick the most cost-effective plan, overburdened physicians can't be expected to counsel each individual patient with plan selection. But for those Medicare recipients who are able, it is worth taking time to understand the options and investigate possible savings on their own."b'As most of my patients have low incomes and lack prescription drug coverage, I have become an expert penny-pincher. My patients and I adjust medications to less expensive, often generic, drugs. We look for coupons, break pills in half, search for the cheapest pharmacy, find free samples and enroll in patient assistance programs sponsored by drug companies.'b'Now, my 88-year-old grandmother and I have used some of these same strategies to reduce the price of her eight monthly prescriptions, which had cost about $260 per month, more than $3,000 a year.'b'Realizing the challenges of enrolling for someone who has never switched on a computer, I offered to select a Medicare prescription plan for her. I started the process at the fairly straightforward Medicare Web site, and after entering her ZIP code I learned that she had 48 plans to choose from, each offering different lists of covered medicines (known as "formularies"), co-payments and deductibles.'b'After entering the names of her current medications, I was presented with a list of estimated costs for several plans. To my dismay, the "best" plan cost $3,242 annually, even more than her current drug bill without any insurance.'b'But I didn\'t stop there. I studied her medication list and discovered that with a few medically insignificant changes, she would reduce her total drug costs substantially. The key is understanding that most medications are considered part of a "class" based on how they work, and each class usually includes two or more medicines of similar effectiveness.'b"Often, a brand-name medication has a high prescription price, but another of the same class that works equally well is available as a lower-priced generic or sold over the counter. The prices of most medications are difficult for doctors to estimate, and we frequently don't mind making a substitution if it will enable the patient to afford the prescription."b"Reviewing my grandmother's medication list, I removed just one medicine, Prilosec, a heartburn drug. My grandmother was getting it by prescription, but since 2003 it has been available over the counter for less than $25 a month. By switching to the cheaper version, my grandmother lowered her projected costs, according to the Medicare Web site, to $1,945 annually, a net savings of more than $1,000."b'Further switches among prescription cholesterol and blood pressure medications lowered her costs further, to only $960 annually if she chooses to receive the medicines by mail (or to $1,267 if she prefers the local pharmacy). I found these savings by reviewing the formularies on the Web sites of several different plans and switching her to medicines that were "preferred" under the drug benefit. Once her doctor agreed to the proposed changes, we signed her up.'b'The lessons for Medicare patients are clear: don\'t automatically enroll in the first plan that pops up as your "best" option; compare the covered drug lists of your top choices (available on line or by calling the companies directly) and discuss the options with your doctor or pharmacist; ask if there are generic versions for any of the medications and, when possible, avoid the more costly drugs that are not "preferred" by the plan.'b'Even those who have already joined plans can still save money by bringing a copy of their covered drug lists to their doctors to discuss switching to cheaper medicines in the same class that are "preferred." (Beneficiaries may also change their plans during the next annual enrollment period, Nov. 15 through Dec. 31.)'b'I realize that after navigating the Internet maze required just to enroll in a plan, few Medicare recipients will relish the idea of doing more research and making changes on their own. But the savings can more than make up for the effort -- just ask my grandmother.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Lisa Doggett is a family doctor.'b"For months, we have been arguing that the Bush administration has generally the right substantive agenda for badly needed changes at the United Nations, but that Ambassador John Bolton's scorched-earth alternative to diplomacy is undermining the prospects for successfully achieving these reforms. Now it turns out that our criticism has been only half-right in at least one crucial area -- in restoring the United Nations' moral authority on human rights by excluding egregious violators from a new human rights monitoring council. Mr. Bolton's latest proposal on this gets the substance wrong as well."b'The problem with the current discredited Human Rights Commission is that its members are chosen by a system of regional rotation that fails to take into account the actual human rights performance of prospective members. The reform was originally intended to change that, by requiring the approval of at least two-thirds of the 191 member countries to win a seat on the new council.'b'Mr. Bolton wants to defeat the whole purpose of that reform by automatically assuring seats for all five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council -- regardless of their own human rights records.'b"That would, of course, guarantee a seat every year for the United States, despite what other countries may think of Guant\xc3\xa1namo Bay and Abu Ghraib, the death penalty, or Washington's practice of secretly flying suspects to be interrogated in countries that countenance torture. It would also guarantee a seat every year to China, one of the world's most notorious human rights violators, and to Russia, whose own human rights record is less than stellar and which has never hesitated to gloss over the human rights abuses of dictatorships it considers friendly, like Cuba, for example."b"There are plenty of areas where special weight is, and should be, given to the Security Council's big five powers, which also happen to be world's five legally recognized nuclear weapons states. Most of these areas, appropriately, are in the Security Council's special domain of war, peace and sanctions."b'But the issue of human rights is very different. It is not about recognizing the interests of the powerful. It is about protecting the interests of the powerless. It would be nice if all of the big five could be trusted to do this. But not all of them can, either at home or internationally. Some of the people most in need of a strong U.N. voice on human rights live under tyrannies that have carefully cultivated Chinese or Russian favor: Cuba, Iran, Myanmar, Uzbekistan and Zimbabwe, to name a few.'b'Although Ambassador Bolton has repeatedly made it clear that he has little use or respect for the United Nations and would be happy to see the United States walk away from it, we have never questioned his commitment to reform its most dysfunctional institutions. But his behavior on this issue leaves us questioning his judgment, and that of his bosses in the State Department and the White House.'b"In his few remaining days in office, Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia has an opportunity to strike a blow for democracy with the stroke of a pen by restoring the right to vote to more than 240,000 felons who are now out of prison. This is manifestly the right thing to do. Mr. Warner, who is likely to be a presidential candidate in 2008, should not let political considerations deter him because taking a principled stand in favor of ex-prisoners' voting rights would only augment his reputation."b"Virginia has one of the nation's most punitive felony disenfranchisement laws. Felons must wait for years after their release from prison to apply for restoration of their voting rights, and the government must decide on each petition individually, case by case. This is in sharp contrast with the many states that automatically restore felons' voting rights when they are out of prison. Even Texas and Georgia restore felons' voting rights automatically when they have completed probation and parole."b"There is no good reason to deny these Americans the vote, and many reasons not to. Democracy is rule by the consent of the governed. It diminishes American democracy to not allow people who have paid their debt to society to help select their leaders. It also detracts from the former prisoners' prospects for rehabilitation to insist that they are unworthy to vote."b'It is impossible to think about felony disenfranchisement, particularly in Virginia, without thinking about race. African-Americans are far more likely than whites to have their votes taken away by these laws. In Virginia, African-Americans make up 20 percent of the population, but they account for 52 percent of those disenfranchised because of felony convictions.'b'Governor Warner may have his mind on the presidential race as he considers how to proceed. No politician wants to appear "pro-criminal." But most Americans see felony re-enfranchisement as an issue of rehabilitation and democracy. In a 2002 Harris poll, 80 percent of those surveyed supported restoring voting rights to felons who had completed their sentences. Voters in Democratic presidential primaries no doubt favor that idea even more. When Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa signed an order last year restoring the vote to ex-felons, he improved his national standing. The public interest and Mr. Warner\'s political interests both argue in favor of giving Virginia\'s ex-prisoners full citizenship.'b"In Latin America, policy is always up for grabs. At the moment, leftist candidates are ascending. This comes after the privatization of the 1990's, the austerity of the 1980's, the discipline promised by military dictatorships in the 1970's, and the protectionism of the 1960's. But every idea disappoints."b"A new report from the Inter-American Development Bank suggests that the constant search for the hot new idea may be focused on the wrong thing. Perhaps it's not what you do, but how you do it. The study found that countries that scored well on how policies are made and carried out are the places where life is improving."b'Not surprisingly, Chile is at the top of the list. More surprisingly, El Salvador is also highly ranked. Argentina and Venezuela are near the bottom.'b"The report challenges sweeping ideologies, and cautions that even programs found to work elsewhere often don't cross borders well. Success depends on how policies are adopted and carried out. Most of the privatizations have worked in Chile, for example, which has strong regulatory institutions, but not in Argentina and Bolivia, which don't."b'The researchers conclude that policies created slowly, with popular consensus, work best, especially if countries have a professional civil service, a capable and well-staffed legislature, an independent judiciary, and longstanding political parties with strong ideological platforms.'b'No politician is likely to base a run for office on a call for apolitical civil servants. But these kinds of reforms may be the real revolution, and the one that lasts.'b'IT is with great sorrow, and no small amount of embarrassment, that I must confess to some inadvertent errors, omissions and elisions in my best-selling memoir, "A Brief History of Tim." In the wake of the recent revelations about the work of J T Leroy and James Frey, it seems inevitable that some of my small mistakes will come to light, and so I feel duty-bound to be upfront and honest with you. Plus, I hear that reporters have been sniffing around.'b'I feel that none of the slight liberties I took in writing my memoir really affect the overall work, but nonetheless, you should know a few things:'b'I am not, in fact, black.'b'Nor am I, to the best of my knowledge, a woman. Anything in my book that suggests otherwise is the result of a typographical error. That this error was compounded by my decision to pose for my author photo and bookstore appearances in drag and blackface is, I will acknowledge, unfortunate.'b'The portions of my book dealing with Depression-era Ireland are, I have been reliably informed, copied verbatim from Frank McCourt\'s "Angela\'s Ashes." I can only conclude that I accidentally confused my manuscript with my notes for my memoir in which I copied large portions of other writers\' works, just to see how they were structured. In hindsight, the fact that I was born 40 years after the Depression should have been a tip-off.'b'My parents are both alive; any reference to my being orphaned at age 12 was meant to be strictly metaphorical.'b"Furthermore, my parents and their lawyers would like it known that neither they, nor any other member of my family, ever beat and/or had sex with me. I thought it was clear that those parts of the book were meant as a joke. (That's what the emoticons were for.)"b'In writing a narrative, it is sometimes necessary to compress or combine certain incidents for dramatic effect. I did much the same thing in the chapter of my book dealing with my prison term, although in reverse: in the interest of dramatic clarity, I expanded my 1993 arrest for jaywalking into a seven-year stint in Sing Sing for manslaughter.'b'Okay, it wasn\'t so much a jaywalking "arrest" as a ticket.'b'Fine, it was a stern warning. Happy now?'b'The death of my older brother, my ensuing severe depression and subsequent emotional breakthrough with the help of a caring psychotherapist did not happen to me, but rather to Timothy Hutton in the film "Ordinary People," which I saw at a very impressionable age, and which I could have sworn happened to me.'b'Ditto for the part about accidentally hacking into Norad and being saved from  causing a global thermonuclear war, with an assist from Dabney Coleman. That was "WarGames."'b'Really, the fact that I could  remember his name only as "Dabney Coleman" should have given me pause.'b'And, finally, since people are getting all "fact-checky" on me, I should just confess that my life did not, in fact, shatter into a million little pieces. I just went back and recounted. It was six pieces. Consider it a rounding error.'b'The previous German chancellor, Gerhard Schr\xc3\xb6der, created quite a strain in German-United States relations when he branded the invasion of Iraq a "military adventure" and joined France in ardently opposing it. Now his successor, Angela Merkel, whose ascendancy was welcomed by the Bush administration as an antidote to the more socialist Mr. Schr\xc3\xb6der, has told interviewers that when she makes her first official call on President Bush on Friday, she intends to speak her mind about Guant\xc3\xa1namo and say the prison must be closed.'b"This may sound like a prescription for prolonging the American-German chill. It really shouldn't be. What infuriated the Bush administration about Mr. Schr\xc3\xb6der was that he opportunistically used America-bashing to win votes even as he was cozying up to President Vladimir Putin and trying to lift the European Union's arms embargo against China. Ms. Merkel has not done that. If she feels strongly about the disgrace of Guant\xc3\xa1namo, as all honest people should, she also feels strongly about the importance of trans-Atlantic relations."b'The disagreements between Washington and Berlin will not go away. If anything, the list has been lengthened in recent months by revelations of secret C.I.A. prisons in Eastern Europe and the wrongful imprisonment by the United States of a German citizen, Khaled el-Masri, who has now been released. But just as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has helped undo some of the damage of the administration\'s first-term "bring \'em on" bravado, so, too, has Ms. Merkel earned an early round of plaudits for her capable, principled approach to foreign policy. Tone is all-important in international relations, and so far, Angela Merkel seems to get it. It worked for her in Europe when she brokered an 11th-hour compromise on the European Union\'s budget, and it could work in America.'b'A successful visit by the new chancellor is very much in Washington\'s interest. The Bush administration\'s "with us or against us" approach has left it quite isolated in Europe. Those who have been "with" America -- Tony Blair of Britain, for example -- have paid a steep political price, while those "against" -- Jacques Chirac of France -- have pretty much burned their bridges to Washington. Ms. Merkel could be what Washington needs, a European friend with credibility and clout on both sides of the divide back home. Alas, Ms. Merkel will most likely not persuade Mr. Bush to close down Guant\xc3\xa1namo, but if she can convince him that her advice comes from a friend, the visit will be useful.'b"New Haven - PRETTY much everyone -- Major League Baseball players, the sport's world governing body, Democrats in Congress, sports columnists, foreign politicians and even many fans -- has ridiculed the United States for refusing to allow the Cuban national team to travel to American soil to play in the inaugural World Baseball Classic this spring. I appreciate the fans' desire to see some of the finest players in the world, but it hardly stretches the truth to say that those who want Cuba to participate are asking to be entertained by a team of slaves."b'Consider this: the option not to play in the tournament, which has been exercised by the Yankees\' Hideki Matsui among others, is not available to Cuban players -- if the government tells them to play, they must. On the other hand, the regime can suspend a player from "Team Fidel," as the national team is often called, simply out of suspicion that he might defect. This happened to Orlando Hern\xc3\xa1ndez, before he managed to escape in a boat and eventually find fame with the Yankees.'b'In this, of course, players are no different from ordinary Cubans, who are subject to preventive arrest under a law known by the horrendous euphemism of "peligrosidad predelictiva," which translates roughly to "dangerousness likely leading to crime." Players are also not allowed to make critical remarks about the government to the foreign press, an act prohibited by a law known as "ley mordaza," or the "gag law."'b"During their regular season, the Cuban players are not allowed to choose a team; they must play for the squad in the district where they reside or not at all. They have no unions and no agents. And they must engage in the institutionalized hypocrisy (copied from the former Soviet Union) of being amateurs, temporarily away from their jobs. The result is that their pay is meager and that they are under total control of the state's Orwellian sports bureaucracy."b'And, of course, they cannot leave the country to play elsewhere. If they manage to escape, they cannot set foot in Cuba again for five years, and their families are often subject to harassment by government-supported mobs, called brigadas de acci\xc3\xb3n r\xc3\xa1pida ("quick response brigades"), that throw stones, eggs and other debris at their houses.'b'The arguments for Cuba\'s participation range from the puerile to the perverse. Peter Angelos, the owner of the Baltimore Orioles, has accused the United States of "picking on" a little country in language worthy of the playground. Since when does the size of a country matter when it comes to its importance, or its repressiveness? Mr. Angelos also sat next to Fidel Castro when his team played an exhibition game in Havana in 1999 and promised he would refuse to sign any Cuban defectors.'b'Others claim that the American stance is dictated by exiles in Miami who lost property in Cuba when Fidel Castro took power in 1959. This is contemptible on two counts: it assumes that Cuban-Americans base their opposition to the dictatorship on greed rather than on personal and political ethics; and it ignores the fact that the number of exiles who lost property in Cuba nearly five decades ago is by now quite small. The Cuban exile community spans the political, social and racial gamut; it includes not a few members of the old Cuban Communist Party. All have endured untold hardships to become economically self-sufficient in America.'b'Besides, these Cubans are American citizens; as such, they are entitled to try to influence foreign policy in the same way any other group does. In exercising that right, they can and do influence elections, which in turn influence American policy toward Cuba -- a delicious irony because the Cuban regime has of course never been legitimized by free elections.'b'And for those who say keeping the Cubans out of the tournament is another example of American ignorance, consider the racist aspect of Cuban sport: the squad is composed almost entirely of black Cuban men, toiling for the glory of the Maximum Leader and his macho, white oligarchy.'b"Every time that a foreign partner is duped into financing his crumbling economy (with the Soviet Union gone, Hugo Ch\xc3\xa1vez's Venezuela is paying the bills), Fidel Castro clamps down on any incipient free enterprise in Cuba, condemning his people to appalling living conditions, while he and his associates enjoy the pleasures of unrestrained power. Are people so eager for a good baseball game that we are willing to overlook 47 years of totalitarian oppression?"b'Op-Ed Contributor Roberto Gonz\xc3\xa1lez Echevarr\xc3\xada, a professor of Hispanic and comparative literature at Yale, is the author of "The Pride of Havana: A History of Cuban Baseball."'b'Washington - THE Department of Homeland Security has just announced that it will concentrate domestic security grants in those communities it perceives as high-risk targets for terrorism -- primarily our large, coastal cities.'b"This action is apparently a response to critics who suggest that smaller cities are simply less likely to be targets. But this is a dangerous assumption. While a two-person rural sheriff's office may have little need for new bomb disposal equipment or chemical suits, grant decisions reached with prudence and common sense will also include some allocations for cities in the American heartland."b'There is no way to accurately predict where future terrorist attacks will be. We learned that all too well in my home state, Oklahoma, in 1995. On the morning of April 19, as I stood in front of the bombed rubble of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, I was asked, "Why here?"'b"One answer that ultimately emerged from the trial, conviction and execution of Timothy McVeigh was that he chose an obscure federal office building in a heartland community precisely because he viewed it as an easy target. McVeigh didn't go to Los Angeles or Miami, at least in part, because he assumed security there might be tighter."b'Foreign terrorists can reach the same conclusion. To channel the bulk of homeland security preparedness money to our dozen largest cities is to extend an invitation to Al Qaeda to strike where we are less well prepared. Who is to say which cities radical Islamists view as symbols of American commerce or power or perceived American decadence? What about Las Vegas, New Orleans or the Hoover Dam? All of them have enormous symbolic value.'b"Moreover, the Department of Homeland Security's mission goes beyond terrorism. As an umbrella agency that also includes the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the department is ultimately responsible for the federal response to natural disasters as well."b"First responders make all the difference in a disaster, whatever its cause or location. And first responders are always local. Ambulances and fire trucks don't come from Washington. They come from right down the street, or at most from the next county. But whether they are reacting to a terrorist attack or a hurricane, they need to get to the scene in a hurry, and it helps immensely if they have the right equipment and training, as well as the ability to communicate with one another."b'Deficiencies in these areas exist in all 50 states and every community. Department of Homeland Security money is supposed to redress them. In fact, there is a strong case to be made for channeling more of that money to smaller cities that lack the resources of the New Yorks and Chicagos.'b'For example, the radio problems that effectively blocked communication between firefighters and police on 9/11 bedevil public safety agencies nationwide. Financing for interoperable radio equipment should be a top priority for communities large and small.'b'Likewise, local law enforcement agencies across the country should have proper terrorism prevention and response training. Some of the 9/11 hijackers sought flight training at schools far from New York, including one in Norman, Okla., a small college town. A homeland security policy that leaves holes in our safety net invites penetration.'b'Aid to a small community that simply adds to the budget may be justifiably criticized as pork; assistance that closes a very real gap in equipment or training for first responders is something very different.'b'From terrorism to natural disasters, people live or die largely because of what first responders do or fail to do. That is why continued federal financing and support for first responders should remain a national, and not just a selectively regional, priority.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Frank Keating, the president and chief executive of the American Council of Life Insurers, was the governor of Oklahoma from 1995 to 2003.'b'The haunting question from the deadly mine disaster in Sago, W.Va., last week becomes ever clearer: Why did it take nearly 12 hours for enough rescuers to gather so they could attempt their first descent toward the 13 miners trapped with limited emergency oxygen? The explosion occurred at 6:30 in the morning in the rural Appalachian mine, as the work shift headed in. The first rescue team was not at the scene until 1:30, seven hours later. It had to wait for a second team, the backup required by law, and that could not be assembled from the far corners of the coal region until after 5:30 in the evening.'b'This devastating timeline is at the core of a detailed report by Ken Ward Jr., a reporter for The Charleston Gazette in West Virginia, that questions whether some of the 12 fatalities might have been prevented by a faster, better-organized rescue effort. Signs of hope persisted for 10 hours into the tragedy, according to one desperate note found down below.'b'The emerging facts are not encouraging about the roles of government safety officers and of the companies that are so routinely allowed to dominate in running the mines, even down to the rescue effort at Sago. National requirements about maintaining readily available rescue teams have gradually been allowed to erode in the 29 years since the last overhaul of mine regulations. The law stipulates that at least two teams be at or near each mine; the reality is that this standard has slipped to where only one team is on hand for every four mines. The number of trained rescuers has dwindled alarmingly in parallel with the rise of mechanization and the reduction in the number of manned crews.'b'At the same time, vital positions at the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration have gone unfilled in recent years, inviting only further laxity on the part of companies that have been allowed to outsource their safety responsibilities to off-site contractors that are not subject to regular federal inspections. And the safety administration, which once maintained rescue experts at regional offices, now has them dispersed across the nation on the theory that they can be summoned fast enough to save lives.'b'Warning signs have abounded in recent years. Yet The Gazette found that a plan begun a decade ago to upgrade the mine rescue program was quietly scuttled by the Bush administration. The pro-company bias of the administration is itself a factor deserving full investigation if the inquiries now being promised are to have any credible effect.'b"Ariel Sharon's sudden stroke, which has removed him from Israeli politics, has triggered a tidal wave of speculation about who will be his Israeli successor: Ehud Olmert? Bibi Netanyahu? Shimon Peres? So much about the future for Israeli-Arab peace, we are told, rides on that question. But as I think about the post-Sharon Middle East, I find myself asking a different question: Is there an Arab successor to Mr. Sharon? Or, better yet, is there an Arab Sharon?"b'Even asking such a question may seem incendiary. After all, Ariel Sharon made his name as Israel\'s most ruthless Arab fighter and unrestrained settlement builder. For many years, that was "Sharonism." So one could easily say that there are many "Arab Sharons": the Arab leaders who have made their names by ruthlessly resisting Israel.'b'Had Mr. Sharon passed from the scene several years ago, before becoming prime minister, his epitaph would have read: "Israel\'s most brutal Arab fighter, settlement-builder and hard-liner" -- period.'b'But you can\'t write his biography without his term as prime minister, which has been his finest and wisest hour. There are not many 77-year-old leaders who not only acknowledge that one of their greatest projects in political life was wrong and posed a dire threat to the future of their people, but then also risk their remaining lives and political careers to reverse it. That, too, must now be called "Sharonism."'b'So when I ask whether there is an Arab Sharon, I am really asking whether among the Palestinians, Syrians, Lebanese and Saudis -- the key Middle East nations that have still not reconciled with Israel -- there are leaders who are also ready to acknowledge that their lifelong efforts to keep their societies in a state of hostility against Israel, and to demand the right of return of Palestinian refugees to Israel, has been a huge waste and, if not reversed, poses a dire threat to the future of their own societies?'b'I raise this question with no illusions about Mr. Sharon. The Haaretz newspaper editorialist Gideon Levy summed him up best: "The belated enthusiasm for Sharon is enthusiasm for a clever leader who tried toward the end of his life to extricate himself somehow from situations that a wise leader would never have gotten into in the first place. The old Sharon was one who led the country into the most superfluous and harmful of Israel\'s wars, the Lebanon War, and would not even raise his hand in favor of the peace agreement with Jordan." He was also most responsible for building a network of Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza that became an unsustainable burden.'b'So Ariel Sharon the prime minister had a lot of problems to clean up from Ariel Sharon the defense minister and agriculture minister. Indeed, when Mr. Sharon was asked why he\'d reversed himself and uprooted the Jewish settlements in Gaza and a few in the West Bank, he famously referred to the prime minister\'s chair: "You see things from here that you don\'t see from there." He could finally see that overbuilding settlements imperiled Israel\'s Jewish and democratic character. So he promptly destroyed the very right-wing party he\'d built -- Likud -- to spread those settlements.'b'Leadership is not what you do to the other side. That\'s always easy. It is what you say to your own. Looking your own people in the eye and saying, in deeds if not words, "I was wrong. We have to reverse course" -- now, that\'s leadership.'b"But Mr. Sharon's change of heart will end this conflict only if there is among Israel's remaining Arab foes an Arab Sharon (another Anwar Sadat or King Hussein) ready to act the same. Yasir Arafat and Hafez al-Assad of Syria were never ready to definitively look their peoples in the eye and tell them the campaign to destroy Israel was over. The old Arafat and the old Assad were just like the young Arafat and the young Assad. No matter how high they rose, they could not see any further for their people."b"Mr. Sharon's legacy will be a mixed one. Arafat's and Assad's will be pure -- pure mediocrity, and both of their nations are now paying the price."b'Mr. Sharon is gone from the scene, but because of the new Israeli center he built, "he left Israel capable of making a decision on the future of the West Bank," said the Middle East analyst Stephen P. Cohen. Assad and Arafat are gone, and because they never built "a new center or pathway to a new future, both their nations are now in turmoil after they are gone."'b"I don't know who will succeed Mr. Sharon. I only know that it will be much easier for Israel's next leader to carry out the positive side of his legacy -- if a few more Arab Sharons show up in the neighborhood."b"WASHINGTON - You've got to like a man who knows how to juggle."b'Samuel Alito picked up the skill on a summer vacation a decade ago, and his juggling talent was on full display yesterday as he tried to balance the old Sam, who was eager to impress Reagan revolutionaries with his zeal, with the new Sam, who is eager to impress a bipartisan Senate panel with his open-mindedness.'b'It was a tale of two Sams.'b'Is he the old Sam, who devised ways to upend Roe v. Wade and crimp abortion rights? Or the new Sam, who has great respect for precedent and an "open mind" about abortion cases?'b'Is he the old Sam, who plotted ways to tip the balance of power to the executive branch? Or the new Sam, who states that "no person in this country is above the law, and that includes the president"?'b'Is he the old Sam, who said Robert Bork "was one of the most outstanding nominees of this century" and "a man of unequaled ability"? Or the new Sam, who shrugged off that statement as the dutiful support of one Reagan appointee for another?'b'Is he the old Sam, who cited membership in a Princeton alumni club that resisted the admission of women and minorities when he was seeking a promotion in the very white Reagan old boys\' club? Or the new Sam, who has "no specific recollection of that organization," unless, of course, he innocently joined it to support R.O.T.C. on campus, and who says he\'s been shaped partly by his hopes for his 17-year-old daughter, Laura, and by his sister\'s experiences "as a trial lawyer in a profession that has traditionally been dominated by men"?'b'Is he the old Sam, who thoughtlessly blew off a pledge to recuse himself from cases involving Vanguard, where he has a six-figure mutual fund? Or the new Sam, who admits that the problem was not "a computer glitch," as he had suggested, and humbly says, "If I had to do it over again, there are things that I would have done differently"?'b"The judge didn't deign to say what he thought of illegal wiretaps -- which you'd think would be an easy one."b'About the judge\'s memory lapses, Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican, drolly noted, "And I hope you\'ll understand if any of us come before a court and we can\'t remember Abramoff, you\'ll tend to believe us."'b'Some of his answers, Senator Joe Biden complained to Chris Matthews, did not "ring a chord of sincerity." (The National Review Web site says the voluble Biden got in 3,673 words and held Judge Alito to 1,013.)'b"You don't have to know the difference between horizontal and vertical stare decisis, or between emanations and penumbras, to see that the man who could take Sandra Day O'Connor's seat and yank back women's rights was, in a word, shifty."b'Or in three words, shifty, sapless and sighing.'b'To offset his reputation on women\'s rights, he even played the henpecked husband. When Republican senators used the expression "When did you stop beating your wife?" about Democratic questions, Judge Alito riposted, "I wasn\'t asked whether she had stopped beating me."'b'His basic defense to Democrats boiled down to: "I was just saying what my boss wanted to hear at the time." Haven\'t we had enough yes-men mangling government for the last five years? Heck of a job, Sammy.'b'I understand why the president is drawn to the judge. Mr. Alito is dubbed "Scalito" -- a conservative senator, John Cornyn, accidentally blurted out the nickname -- because he\'s so much like Antonin Scalia. And W. loves Nino.'b"Judge Alito has supported imperial powers for the presidency, not strong checks and balances; he approved the strip search of a 10-year-old girl but is not probing too deeply into what the executive branch is doing. That's W.'s philosophy, too -- a pre-emptive right to secretly do everything from war to torture to snooping."b'Like the president, the judge loves baseball. Mr. Alito once vacationed at a fantasy baseball camp (O.K. fielder, hopeless hitter), wearing the red and white Phillies uniform. W. has spent five years in fantasyland on Iraq, on occasion donning military costumes.'b'His fingers in his ears, W. didn\'t want to hear that we had too few troops in Iraq -- ignoring advice from Viceroy Paul Bremer and Gen. Eric Shinseki -- or that the troops didn\'t have enough armor. But the president continues to fling blame outward. In a speech yesterday before the Veterans of Foreign Wars, he warned the Democrats that they should take care not to bring "comfort to our adversaries."'b'Judge Alito was evasive, disingenuous and deferential. He fits the Bush era like a baseball glove.'b"Judge Samuel Alito Jr.'s confirmation process has barely begun, and his supporters are already complaining that it has been unfair. There have certainly been troubling aspects to this hearing, but so far they have been in Judge Alito's favor. The news that federal judges intend to testify in support of his nomination is both unusual and unfortunate, as are reports that a Republican member of the Judiciary Committee may have helped prepare Judge Alito for the hearings. So are some comments by Senator Arlen Specter, the committee chairman, who seems to be using his position to spin things Judge Alito's way."b'Senator Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, has invited seven current and former federal judges, led by Judge Edward Becker of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, to testify for Judge Alito. It is extraordinary for judges to thrust themselves into a controversial Supreme Court nomination in this way, a move that could reasonably be construed as a partisan gesture. The judges will be doing harm to the federal bench.'b'Their planned testimony does not appear to violate judicial canons, but it brushes up against them. Canon 2B of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges says that judges should not testify voluntarily as character witnesses. The official commentary warns that serving as a character witness "injects the prestige of the judicial office into the proceeding" and "may be misunderstood to be an official testimonial."'b"The canons allow judges to give their opinions about judicial nominees when directly asked by an appropriate body. But by taking sides in a highly partisan political fight, the judges will be causing many of the ills the canons warn against. Their testimony's greatest value will almost certainly not stem from the facts the judges provide, but from the prestige they hold as members of the federal judiciary."b'Ethics rules aside, Stephen Gillers, a New York University law professor, says the judges are making "an awful decision as a matter of policy." In future confirmation battles, both sides will no doubt try to line up judges to testify just to keep things even. Judge Becker and his colleagues are beginning a process of politicizing the federal judiciary that all of us will most likely come to regret.'b"According to a report in The Wall Street Journal, Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who serves on the Judiciary Committee, joined a session at the White House last week to prepare Judge Alito for the hearings. (Senator Graham concedes that he spoke with Judge Alito in the White House's executive offices, but denies that their conversation was to help prepare the judge.) This report casts doubt on Senator Graham's ability to exercise his committee duties impartially."b"Securing the judges' testimony is not Senator Specter's only unfortunate move. When he questioned Judge Alito yesterday about Roe v. Wade, he seemed to be working harder than the nominee himself to make the answers come out in a politically palatable form."b'And after the first day\'s proceedings, Senator Specter criticized the Democratic senators\' opening statements, and laid out a false standard for how Judge Alito should be evaluated. "I think it is important that the American people who are viewing these hearings understand that what is being said by the senators doesn\'t constitute evidence," Senator Specter said, adding, "The evidence comes from Judge Alito."'b"It would no doubt help Judge Alito if the Senate were somehow required to consider only his testimony during these particular hearings. But senators have the right to consider his full record of legal opinions and statements about the law -- and to read them into The Congressional Record. Senator Specter has accused the Democrats of acting as if the hearings are a trial, but he is the one who has tried to apply rules of evidence that may apply in court, but don't in the Senate."b'From the moment Judge Alito was nominated, his supporters have tried to present him as a victim of everything from special interest groups to anti-Italian bias. Judge Alito has strong support from the White House, and from the party that controls the Senate. The biggest concern in these proceedings is not whether they will be fair to him, but whether they will be fair to the American people, who will have to live with the results.'b"Berkeley, Calif. - IN defying international monitors and breaking the seals on its nuclear facilities, Iran seems to be courting confrontation. But Western leaders would do well to consider what President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's bravado really says about Iran's likely posture in the region and at the nuclear talks that are scheduled to resume at the end of January. To continue down the path of conflict could be very costly, both for the regional interests of the United States and most of all, for the territorial integrity of Iran."b"Mr. Ahmadinejad is surely motivated by ideology and the desire to solidify the position of the security faction within Iran's ruling elite. But he also appears to be acting on the perception that the United States is in a position of considerable, indeed unprecedented, weakness. America's military is overstretched in Iraq and Afghanistan, and Washington has focused on monitoring North Korea's nuclear program rather than Iran's. If threatened, Iran could wreak havoc in Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon and Israel. These observations may lead Mr. Ahmadinejad to an incorrect assessment of Iran's strength relative to any American threat."b"In fact, Iran has serious domestic frailties, including a shaky economy and its attendant unemployment and popular resentment, not to mention soaring levels of drug abuse and a brain drain. But President Ahmadinejad no doubt takes comfort not only in his belief in divine protection but also in the knowledge that Shiite religious parties aligned with Iran are now the dominant political forces in Iraq, while the American public hardly seems amenable to waging another war in the region. Moreover, Mr. Ahmadinejad very likely believes that the best way to guard against regime change from without is to emulate North Korea by swiftly advancing Iran's nuclear capacity."b"The new president also surely knows that even if Iran's nuclear dossier is referred to the United Nations Security Council, meaningful multilateral sanctions against the Islamic Republic will most likely be vetoed by Russia or China. Flush with petrodollars, Iran has become a major purchaser of Russian technology, including roughly $1 billion worth of allegedly defensive weapons that Moscow recently agreed to sell to Tehran. Meanwhile, China, seizing on Iran as a key producer of oil and gas not beholden to the United States, has quickly emerged as one of Iran's largest trading partners."b"Given this favorable strategic picture, Mr. Ahmadinejad might even welcome an American or Israeli strike on Iran's nuclear facilities. Tehran could then retaliate against American and Israeli interests by mobilizing its Shiite allies in Iraq, the Persian Gulf countries and Lebanon -- or even by making common cause with some Sunni rivals. All the while, Mr. Ahmadinejad's faction in government would make full use of the war footing to marginalize its rivals at home and crush the remnants of Iran's civil society."b'But the Iranian regime is not invulnerable, and Washington knows this. Just as Iran can use the Shiite card to create mischief in the region, the United States could manipulate ethnic and sectarian tensions in Iran, which has significant, largely Sunni, minority populations along its borders.'b"Many of Iran's ethnic and religious minorities see themselves as victims of discrimination, and they have not been effectively integrated into Iranian economic, political or cultural life. Some two million disgruntled Arabs reside mainly in the oil- and gas- rich province of Khuzestan. The United States could make serious trouble for Tehran by providing financial, logistical and moral support to Arab secessionists in that province. Other aggrieved Iranian minorities would be emboldened by the Arabs' example -- for example, the Kurds and the Baluchis, or even the Azeris (though the Azeris, being Shiites, are better integrated into Iranian society). A simple spark could suffice to set off centrifugal explosions."b"Furthermore, the plummeting Iranian economy will only worsen if the United States succeeds in referring Iran's nuclear file to the Security Council, whether or not meaningful sanctions follow. Such a referral would accelerate capital flight, deal a blow to the country's already collapsing stock market, devastate its hitherto booming real estate market, and wipe out the savings of a large part of the middle class. It would also most likely result in galloping inflation, hurting Iran's dispossessed, whom the Ahmadinejad administration claims to represent."b'In light of these ominous possibilities, both Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. Bush would do well to avoid overplaying their hands. They should take a leaf from the book not of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini the ideologue, but of Ayatollah Khomeini the pragmatic politician. Like Mr. Ahmadinejad, Ayatollah Khomeini argued that the "Zionist entity" should be wiped off the map. But he chose regime preservation over ideology when he ended the Iran-Iraq war and even bought weapons from Israel.'b"IRAN should endeavor to regain the trust of the international community by engaging in compromise, and the United States should allow this compromise to be sufficiently face-saving for Iran's ruling elite. To regain the confidence of the international community, Iran should accept the Russian offer to process Iranian uranium gas into fuel and voluntarily stop, for a specified time, insisting on its right to do so at home."b"In return, the United States should lift its unilateral sanctions from Iran. These sanctions, which include a ban on the sale of aircraft and spare parts to Iran, have absolutely no effect on the regime's nuclear capacity, but they harm Iranian civilians."b"Today the incentive for both sides to step away from the brink of conflict is even greater than it was at the end of the Iran-Iraq war. If the United States responds to a perceived Iranian threat by exploiting Iran's ethnic, sectarian and economic cleavages, it is not just the Islamic Republic that will be threatened -- Iran itself could be dismembered as well."b"Op-Ed Contributor Dariush Zahedi is a political scientist at the University of California at Berkeley. Omid Memarian, an Iranian journalist and blogger, is a visiting scholar at the university's Graduate School of Journalism."b"Iraq's most powerful Shiite politician has just dealt a huge blow to American-backed efforts to avoid civil war through the creation of a new, nationally inclusive constitutional order. That leader, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, leader of the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq, has turned his back on the crucial pledge, made before last October's constitutional referendum, that the new charter would be open to substantial amendment by the newly elected Parliament. Instead, Mr. Hakim, who runs the dominant, Iranian-supported fundamentalist party, now says no broad changes should be made. In particular, he defends the current provisions allowing substantial autonomy for the oil-rich Shiite southeast."b"The vote count from last month's parliamentary election is not yet complete. But it is already certain that the Shiite religious alliance, in which Mr. Hakim is the most important leader, will hold enough seats to block any constitutional changes it doesn't like. The only recourse is to persuade Mr. Hakim to respect that earlier pledge."b"Mr. Hakim's latest position is a prescription for a national breakup and an endless civil war. It is also a provocative challenge to Washington, which helped broker the original promise of significant constitutional changes. On the basis of that promise, Sunni voters turned out in large numbers, both for the constitutional referendum and for last month's parliamentary vote. Drawing Sunni voters into democratic politics is vital to creating the stable, peaceful Iraq that President Bush has declared to be the precondition for an American military withdrawal. The most unacceptable defect of the new constitution for Sunnis is its provision for radically decentralizing national political and economic power, dispersing it to separate regions."b"In a quirk of geology, most of Iraq's known oil deposits lie under provinces dominated by Shiites or Kurds, while the Sunni provinces of the west and north are resource-poor and landlocked. Iraq as a whole is rich enough to support all of its people relatively comfortably. But a radically decentralized Iraq would leave the Sunnis impoverished, aggrieved and desperate, driving them into the arms of radical Sunni groups in neighboring lands."b"Although Sunnis are a minority in Iraq, they are an overwhelming majority in the Arab world. An irreconcilable split between Iraq's Shiites and Sunnis would leave the Shiites even more dependent than they are now on Iran and American troops."b"Constitutional changes are needed in other areas as well, especially in regard to women's rights and the overly broad prohibitions against former members of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party. But decentralization is the most dangerously explosive issue right now. Mr. Hakim seems perversely determined to inflame it."b'Some commentators are complaining that Judge Samuel Alito Jr.\'s confirmation hearings have not been exciting, but they must not have been paying attention. We learned that Judge Alito had once declared that Judge Robert Bork -- whose Supreme Court nomination was defeated because of his legal extremism -- "was one of the most outstanding nominees" of the 20th century. We heard Judge Alito refuse to call Roe v. Wade "settled law," as Chief Justice John Roberts did at his confirmation hearings. And we learned that Judge Alito subscribes to troubling views about presidential power.'b"Those are just a few of the quiet bombshells that have dropped. In his deadpan bureaucrat's voice, Judge Alito has said some truly disturbing things about his view of the law. In three days of testimony, he has given the American people reasons to be worried -- and senators reasons to oppose his nomination. Among those reasons are the following:"b"EVIDENCE OF EXTREMISM -- Judge Alito's extraordinary praise of Judge Bork is unsettling, given that Judge Bork's radical legal views included rejecting the Supreme Court's entire line of privacy cases, even its 1965 ruling striking down a state law banning sales of contraceptives. Judge Alito's membership in Concerned Alumni of Princeton -- a group whose offensive views about women, minorities and AIDS victims were discussed in greater detail at yesterday's hearing -- is also deeply troubling, as is his unconvincing claim not to remember joining it."b'OPPOSITION TO ROE V. WADE -- In 1985, Judge Alito made it clear that he believed the Constitution does not protect abortion rights. He had many chances this week to say he had changed his mind, but he refused. When offered the chance to say that Roe is a "super-precedent," entitled to special deference because it has been upheld so often, he refused that, too. As Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, noted in particularly pointed questioning, since Judge Alito was willing to say that other doctrines, like one person one vote, are settled law, his unwillingness to say the same about Roe strongly suggests that he still believes what he believed in 1985.'b'SUPPORT FOR AN IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY -- Judge Alito has backed a controversial theory known as the "unitary executive," and argued that the attorney general should be immune from lawsuits when he installs illegal wiretaps. Judge Alito backed away from one of his most extreme statements in this area -- his assertion, in a 1985 job application, that he believed "very strongly" in "the supremacy of the elected branches of government." But he left a disturbing impression that as a justice, he would undermine the Supreme Court\'s critical role in putting a check on presidential excesses.'b'INSENSITIVITY TO ORDINARY AMERICANS\' RIGHTS -- Time and again, as a lawyer and a judge, the nominee has taken the side of big corporations against the "little guy," supported employers against employees, and routinely rejected the claims of women, racial minorities and the disabled. The hearing shed new light on his especially troubling dissent from a ruling by two Reagan-appointed judges, who said that workers at a coal-processing site were covered by Mine Safety and Health Act protections.'b"DOUBTS ABOUT THE NOMINEE'S HONESTY -- Judge Alito's explanation of his involvement with Concerned Alumni of Princeton is hard to believe. In a 1985 job application, he proudly pointed to his membership in the organization. Now he says he remembers nothing of it -- except why he joined, which he insists had nothing to do with the group's core concerns. His explanation for why he broke his promise to Congress to recuse himself in any case involving Vanguard companies is also unpersuasive. As for his repeated claims that his past statements on subjects like abortion and Judge Bork never represented his personal views or were intended to impress prospective employers -- all that did was make us wonder why we should give any credence to what he says now."b"The debate over Judge Alito is generally presented as one between Republicans and Democrats. But his testimony should trouble moderate Republicans, especially those who favor abortion rights or are concerned about presidential excesses. The hearings may be short on fireworks, but they have produced, through Judge Alito's words, an array of reasons to be concerned about this nomination."b"The mandatory sentencing laws that have swept this country since the 70's have clearly done more harm than good. The inmate population has skyrocketed, driving prison costs to bankrupting levels, while having no impact at all on the drug problem. By taking away judicial discretion, the laws have led the country to write off first-time offenders who might have deserved second chances and to imprison addicts who could otherwise have been effectively and less expensively handled through treatment programs."b'The laws have also discriminated against members of minority groups, who are disproportionately singled out for harsher mandatory sentences, often because of where they live. That issue has come into sharp focus in New Jersey, where a panel of criminal justice officials has recommended that the state revise a law that mandates more severe sentences for people convicted of certain drug crimes committed within 1,000 feet of school property.'b'The law appears to have had no impact at all on the actual pattern of drug dealing. But it has created a profoundly discriminatory sentencing pattern, which treats minority defendants unfairly while undermining confidence in the criminal justice system.'b'Offenders who live in cities, where populations are dense and the schools numerous, tend to fall under the drug-free-zone laws, not because they peddle drugs to minors, but because they live near schools. Offenders who live in suburban and rural areas, where drug abuse is just as common but where schools are more spread out, tend to fall outside the law, so they receive lighter sentences.'b'As a consequence, the report found, just about every offender incarcerated for a drug-free-zone offense in New Jersey is either black or Hispanic, even though those two groups make up only about a quarter of the population. Not a single one of the offenders had sold drugs to a minor, and fewer than 2 percent had actually committed offenses on school property.'b"The so-called urban effect of these laws is hardly unique to New Jersey. More than 30 states have passed such laws since the 1980's, thus turning whole swaths of largely black and Hispanic urban areas into extra-penalty zones. Though widely emulated around the nation, the 1,000-foot rule appears arbitrary and without basis in law. The New Jersey panel's study wisely recommends reducing the size of the zones and changing the law so it actually targets the few people who sell drugs at or near schools -- without discriminating against minorities."b"The broader message of this study is that the country can't just imprison its way out of the drug problem. Coping with this issue -- while reducing prison costs -- will require a complex set of strategies, including drug abuse treatment and prevention services and increased judicial discretion in sentencing."b'Philadelphia - IF the first days of 2006 are any indication, it\'s going to be a banner year for literary scandal. Last week, before the confabulations of J T Leroy and James Frey came to light, The Sunday Times of London did its bit by reporting that it had submitted typescripts of two Booker Prize-winning novels from the 1970\'s (Sir V. S. Naipaul\'s "In a Free State" and Stanley Middleton\'s "Holiday") to 20 publishers and agents. Aside from one agent who expressed some interest in Mr. Middleton\'s novel, the responses were uniformly negative.'b'This "exercise" in literary judgment, as The Times called it, was said to demonstrate the sorry state of affairs in the publishing industry. The Times wrote that critics say the industry "has become obsessed with celebrity authors and \'bright marketable young things\' " and is no longer capable of "spotting genuine literary talent."'b'It\'s surprising that anyone could get much worked up about this, even in London, the global epicenter of literary gossip and scandal. Such stunts have been pulled many times before, and always with the same results. We don\'t really need another demonstration that publishing operates to the disadvantage of unknown and unconnected authors, or that editors and agents receive far too many unsolicited typescripts each week to be simply "spotting" new talent deep in the slush pile.'b"But there is something startling about this latest hoax. In all the commentary surrounding the episode, no one has remarked on The Sunday Times's sudden deference to the Booker Prize (now called the Man Booker Prize). Since when has the British press accepted the Booker as an infallible yardstick of literary value?"b'The Booker certainly had no such reputation in its early years, when Mr. Naipaul and Mr. Middleton won their awards. In those days, even the judges and winners felt free to denounce the prize. When Mr. Naipaul won in 1971, the chairman of the judges resigned in protest, describing most of the nominated books as "mere pornography." The next year, John Berger, who won for his novel "G.," used his acceptance speech to call the prize "distasteful" and "false" and to accuse the Booker company of neocolonial racism.The press coverage of these early scandals established the mixed tones of horror, outrage and amused condescension that have dominated Booker commentary ever since. As The Sunday Times itself observed in a 1988 article (characteristically titled "For Love of Literature and Loadsamoney"), "Throughout its history, the prize has been derided as a tasteless horse race, a culturally bankrupt publicity stunt." The Times\'s own writers have contributed plenty to this chorus of derision. A Times article about the 1981 award banquet was headlined "Malcolm and Brian Row. Joan is Upset. Hilary Takes 10 Per Cent," and concluded that it had been "a vintage year" for Booker-watchers.'b'In calmer years, The Times\'s tactic has been to express disappointment; a story about the 1990 shortlist regretfully observed, "No shocks. No horror. No Salman Rushdie." The unspoken policy at The Times, as at every other British newspaper, has been to promote the prize as entertaining hoopla without ever crediting it as a legitimate instrument of literary judgment.'b'So what does it mean that The Times now looks toward the Booker Prize, without skepticism or irony, for validation of an author\'s "greatness"?'b'The point of The Times\'s hoax was apparently to defend the notion of pure literary value -- the "genuine" greatness residing in the written words of the true genius, independent of social, political and commercial interests. Instead, the affair may in fact signal a decisive erosion of this very concept. The publishing industry, which must always defer to the logic of commerce, makes far too soft a target for defenders of literary purity. But prizes have served at least since the early 19th century as a perfect foil.'b'Nowhere is the rhetoric of greatness more amplified than at book-prize ceremonies; literary awards would make no sense if they did not claim for themselves the power to recognize true or genuine value as opposed to mere celebrity or marketability or social connection. And yet, they continually undermine that rhetoric of purity with their displays of bickering and back-biting, all the quarrels among corporate sponsors, administrators, judges and writers, all those reliably annual "scandals" in which literary judgment reveals its hopelessly human nature.'b'The Booker Prize is perhaps the best example of how a literary award thrives on this scandal of its own duplicity, gaining real power as an instrument of canonization precisely by outraging us with its mundane social, political and economic dimensions. It makes itself a staging ground not just for specific judgments of value but for the whole elaborate game that enables some judgments to appear more pure or perfect than others.'b'If nowadays that duplicity is collapsing, if even the London literary press is prepared to accept the Booker as fully legitimate coin in the realm of art, it may be the prize itself that stands most to lose. Unless it can find new ways to mobilize the sincere belief in a form of value higher than its own, the Booker will be hard pressed to hold its place at the center of the literary game.'b'Op-Ed Contributor James F. English, the chairman of the English department at University of Pennsylvania, is the author of "The Economy of Prestige: Prizes, Awards and the Circulation of Cultural Value."'b'Atlanta - CAN we trust claims that the unregulated monitoring of telephone conversations by the executive branch does not threaten our privacy because the president has authorized spying only upon people linked to terrorist groups? One answer can be found in a little-remembered domestic spying scandal that took place four decades ago during the Johnson administration.'b'In the spring of 1954, Herbert Brownell, President Eisenhower\'s attorney general, sent a confidential memorandum to J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Prompted by a recent Supreme Court decision "denouncing the use of microphone surveillances by city police in a gambling case," the memorandum authorized the F.B.I. to conduct "microphone surveillance" in national security investigations. Brownell even approved trespassing on private property to plant electronic bugs because "for the F.B.I. to fulfill its important intelligence function, considerations of internal security and the national safety are paramount and, therefore, may compel the unrestricted use of the technique."'b'The claim of authority to install illegal bugs was significant. From 1928 to 1967, Supreme Court decisions permitted wiretapping of telephone lines if the device could be installed without a trespass into a home or other private area; since 1940, administrations could use this as one basis to tap the telephones of "suspected spies," but not to bug their homes.'b'Brownell acknowledged that Supreme Court justices had been "outraged" that police officers had installed a microphone in a bedroom in a criminal case. But he assumed that the executive branch had expansive power to spy in national security investigations and authorized intrusions into even this "intimate location" if necessary to obtain "important intelligence or evidence relating to matters connected with the national security." Although Brownell\'s memorandum was written years before the Supreme Court and Congress imposed the current constitutional and legislative limits on electronic surveillance, it still distinguished between national security investigations and traditional criminal law enforcement.'b"In the decade after this authorization, the F.B.I. installed hundreds of electronic bugs and a large percentage were in criminal investigations having nothing to do with Communists, the cold war or the nation's foreign enemies. One figured prominently in the scandal that erupted during Lyndon Johnson's presidency."b"In 1966, an influential Washington lobbyist named Fred Black asked the Supreme Court to reverse his conviction for tax evasion. The case was potentially embarrassing to President Johnson because Black was an associate of Bobby Baker, a Johnson prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9. Before Black's legal proceedings were resolved, Solicitor General Thurgood Marshall advised the Supreme Court that as part of an unrelated criminal investigation, F.B.I. agents had illegally installed microphones in Black's hotel suite and recorded conversations between Black and his lawyers, and that prosecutors in the tax case had unknowingly received information from those bugs. Although Marshall argued that prosecutors had not used that information against Black, the Supreme Court ordered the Johnson administration to submit a report explaining the source of the F.B.I.'s authority to conduct this electronic surveillance."b"The court's order provoked intense press coverage and a high-stakes political battle involving Johnson, Hoover and Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York. In an effort to force the Justice Department to report that Kennedy had approved the bugging during his tenure as attorney general, Hoover lobbied within the Johnson administration and leaked information to the press. Kennedy, however, explicitly denied that he had approved the illegal electronic surveillance of Black or others."b"Kennedy was vindicated when the Justice Department report submitted to the Supreme Court by Attorney General Nicholas deB. Katzenbach named Hoover as the person who had authorized the illegal bugging. Although Hoover claimed that every recent administration had informally approved the practice, only the 1954 Brownell memorandum documented an explicit grant of authority for the illegal installation of electronic bugs. The F.B.I. had turned an administration's assertion of authority to eavesdrop on the nation's enemies into a justification for listening to private conversations unrelated to national security."b'The Supreme Court reversed Fred Black\'s conviction. At his second trial, Black was acquitted. Within months of telling the Supreme Court that Hoover had authorized the bugging, Katzenbach resigned as attorney general. He later said, "I could no longer effectively serve as attorney general because of Mr. Hoover\'s obvious resentment of me."'b'But the fundamental issue was not who would win these power struggles or even which official had authorized the illegal bugging. It was that an executive branch agency had engaged in domestic spying free from any oversight by other government institutions. The courts and Congress soon acted. In 1967, the Supreme Court decided two cases imposing Fourth Amendment restrictions on electronic surveillance. One opinion cited the Black case in a discussion of bugging for "prosecutorial purposes." In 1968, Congress enacted a statute that established comprehensive restrictions on wiretapping and electronic surveillance -- including a judicial warrant requirement.'b'This bit of history shows how, unregulated by either the courts or Congress, the F.B.I. was free to expand a grant of authority to combat our cold war enemies into a license to spy on ordinary citizens. With an unchecked executive branch, we should fear that similar abuses may be occurring today, in our war on terrorism.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Morgan Cloud is a law professor at Emory University.'b'Fortunately, Iran is believed to still be several years away from being able to produce nuclear weapons. But it has now embarked on a course that can have no other plausible intent.'b'Turning its back on generous European and Russian offers that would have guaranteed its supplies of civilian reactor fuel, helped its economy, added jobs and lessened its diplomatic isolation, this week Tehran unsealed the centrifuges it can now use to enrich uranium to bomb-grade levels.'b"By doing so, it thumbed its nose at all those governments, including the United States, that had been working patiently and creatively to find a diplomatic formula that met everyone's needs without adding to nuclear dangers. Now those countries -- along with China, whose veto power on the United Nations Security Council makes it an essential participant -- need to look for new ways to stop, or at least slow down, Iran's nuclear weapons drive."b'Every new addition to the roster of nuclear weapons states significantly raises the odds that nuclear weapons will be used in war, or will become available to terrorists. Those dangers are especially acute in the case of Iran under its radically belligerent leadership, which has called for the elimination of Israel and maintains close ties with groups that have embraced terrorism.'b'The problem is that no one has yet come up with any very good ways of deflecting Iran from its nuclear course. Nature has given it all the raw uranium it needs. With help from the rogue Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan, it has acquired uranium enrichment centrifuges and possibly a workable bomb design. And thanks to its ample oil reserves, it has the means to withstand all but the most sweeping and universally enforced sanctions.'b"Even if the United States and Europe got the Iran case referred to the United Nations Security Council, it is not clear what that body would or wouldn't do. Even if Russia and China could be persuaded to go along with sanctions, that might not be enough to pressure Iran, a major oil exporter whose leadership doesn't seem to care very much about other areas of international trade or diplomacy."b'There are no realistic military options, especially for Washington. Iran is more than three times as large and nearly three times as populous as Iraq. And it is worth recalling that the ill-fated invasion of Iraq was first sold to the American public as the most promising way to keep weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of terrorists and terrorist-friendly states.'b"Still, the world can scarcely afford to ignore Iran's nuclear ambitions and its contempt for diplomacy. The inadequacy of nuclear proliferation safeguards is an argument for strengthening them, not for giving up and wishing for the best."b"China and Russia should join the United States, Britain, France and Germany in putting Iran's behavior before the Security Council and condemning it as a steadily growing threat. Plain talk and a united stand are never bad ideas, particularly when more conventional diplomacy has so far failed."b'PRESIDENT Bush\'s ordering the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans without warrants contradicts a long evolution toward the secrecy of communications. Centuries ago, people in England, France and the German states fought for the right to send letters without their being opened by the "black chambers" of absolutist monarchs. Martin Luther, whose letters had been opened by the Duke of Saxony, raged that "a thief is a thief, whether he is a money thief or a letter thief."'b'Regulations called for postal secrecy in 1532 and 1573 in Austria\'s Tyrol, in Prussia in 1685, in the oath of succession taken in 1690 by the Holy Roman emperor Joseph I and in his postal regulation of 1698. Rulers ignored them. Like Britain\'s Oliver Cromwell, who saw the post as "the best means to discover and prevent many dangerous and wicked designs against the Commonwealth," they justified letter-opening.'b'It sometimes worked. In 1723, Bishop Francis Atterbury was exiled, partly on the basis of intercepted letters, for trying to put a pretender on Britain\'s throne. Monarchs got information from their "black chambers" -- secret rooms in post offices in main cities into which the mail was brought for opening.'b"London's was in Abchurch Lane, near St. Paul's. Black chambers resembled laboratories. Kettles spouted steam to soften wax seals. Experts took impressions of seals with a soft amalgam to make new ones in case they broke the originals while sliding hot wires under them. Specialists slid thin batons with a long slit into envelopes and twirled letters around them so they could be extracted without breaking the seals."b'Austria\'s black chamber was reputed to be the most efficient. Sacks of diplomatic mail arrived at 7 a.m., the letters unsealed and read, the important parts copied, sometimes by dictation, the letters replaced and resealed and sent to the embassies by 9:30. The employees sometimes erred, however. When the British ambassador in Austria complained that he was getting copies instead of originals, the prime minister, Metternich, coolly replied, "How clumsy these people are!"'b"But the public knew about the letter-opening and hated it. The pre-revolutionary French assembly, the Estates-General, received complaints from all regions of France and from all classes of society about this invasion of their thoughts. A month after the fall of the Bastille, Article 11 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man held that citizens may write with freedom -- in effect nullifying the right of the government to read letters. In the United States, the 1792 law establishing the Post Office forbade its agents from illegally opening the mail entrusted to it. This grew out of the Constitution's Fourth Amendment, prohibiting unreasonable searches. Of course, judges could issue warrants to read letters, just as they could allow law officials to enter a house."b'Curiously, an absolutist monarchy was the first state to enact a law specifically punishing letter-opening. "Whoever opens the letter of another without his will and without special permission faces three to 14 days of prison," read Article 1370 of Prussia\'s General Law of 1794. Other states of Germany and elsewhere in Europe followed.'b'British laws in 1711 and 1837 empowered the government to issue warrants to read mail. Then, in 1844, the Italian revolutionary Giuseppe Mazzini, during a stay in England, learned that his letters had been opened without a proper warrant. Parliament exploded. The great historian Macauley defied the government to differentiate "between a letter of his being taken from him when in the post office and a letter taken out of his desk." Britons, he said, "would rather take the risk of great crimes being committed, than owe their security to that system or those means, which would destroy the manly spirit of the people, on which more reliance could be placed than all the schemes and decrees that could be invented for maintaining their greatness and independence as a nation." The uproar was channeled into a long report, and the liberal winds of the 1840\'s blew down the black chambers in Britain and most of the Continent.'b'Throughout the 20th century, many nations (including the United States) continued to intercept diplomats\' messages, but most seem to have stopped reading their citizens\' mail. Not totalitarian governments, though. Article 128 of the 1936 Constitution of the Soviet Union guaranteed the privacy of correspondence, but the Soviet government read private mail. And although Germany\'s Weimar Constitution declared in Article 117 that "Privacy of correspondence, of mail  are inviolable," Hermann G\xc3\xb6ring\'s intelligence bureau eavesdropped on conversations from a converted Berlin apartment house whose basement housed ranks of clattering teletypewriters.'b'After World War II, nations paid at least lip service to letter secrecy. Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, signed by many countries, holds that "no one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his  correspondence." Not all keep their word.'b'Op-Ed Contributor David Kahn is the author of "The Codebreakers" and "The Reader of Gentlemen\'s Mail," a biography of the cryptologist Herbert O. Yardley.'b'There are many reasons to be concerned about the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito Jr. for the Supreme Court, but for a small group of moderate Republicans who strongly identify themselves as supporters of abortion rights, there is a special problem: if Judge Alito gets to the court, there is every reason to believe that he will vote to overturn Roe v. Wade when the opportunity comes.'b'In 1985, when he was a 35-year-old government lawyer, Judge Alito stated that the Constitution did not protect abortion rights, and that he was "particularly proud" of his legal work arguing that the Constitution did not confer the right to an abortion. There is now ample evidence that he continues to hold that view.'b'He refused time and again in this week\'s hearings to call Roe "settled law." That\'s a giant red flag because he did say that the one-person-one-vote cases, which he denounced in the same 1985 memo -- and many other decisions -- are now settled law. In sharp contrast, as Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, underscored, Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. said at his Supreme Court confirmation hearing last year that Roe was settled law.'b'There was a telling moment at the start of the Alito hearings when Senator Arlen Specter, the committee chairman, offered Judge Alito a way out. He asked whether Judge Alito believed, as some commentators do, that the Supreme Court\'s 1992 ruling in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, strongly reaffirming Roe, made Roe a "super-precedent" -- and therefore rendered the judge\'s 1985 views obsolete.'b'But Judge Alito would not give Senator Specter, who supports abortion rights, even that small bit of comfort, saying he did not believe in super-precedents. All of that should make things hard for Senator Specter and for three moderate Republicans -- Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, and Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine -- who have said they will oppose any nominee committed to overturning Roe.'b"Judge Alito's assertions that he will keep an open mind on Roe are little comfort. With nearly 70 percent of Americans saying in a recent Harris poll that they would oppose Judge Alito's confirmation if they thought he would vote against constitutional protection for abortion rights, he was not likely to say at his hearings that he would do so. Few nominees would be so brave or foolhardy."b'As a result, senators have to try to forecast the behavior of a nominee like Judge Alito, who comes with a clear record of opposition to abortion rights and strong support from the anti-abortion movement.'b"The single most important thing a senator can do to support abortion rights is to vote against Supreme Court nominees who would take such rights away. Given Judge Alito's record and his testimony, it is hard to see how Senators Specter, Chafee, Snowe and Collins -- or any other pro-choice senators -- can call themselves strong advocates of abortion rights if they support him."b'THE recent debate set off by the publication of my book about my time in Iraq has shed more heat than light. Here are some of the fundamental lessons I took away from the American experience.'b'First, repairing the damage to Iraq by decades of tyranny was never going to be easy, and I made some mistakes.'b"For example, consider our efforts to ban senior Baath Party officials from public office. This was the proper decision -- the party had been a key instrument of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship -- and our policy was intended to affect only the top 1 percent or so of party members."b'The error was that I left the implementation of the policy to a political body within the nascent Iraqi government, where it became a tool of politicians who applied it much more broadly than we had intended. De-Baathification should have been administered by an independent judicial body.'b"We also placed too much emphasis on large-scale reconstruction projects. While the urgent need for modern highways, electrical generating plants and the like was clear, we should have anticipated that building them would take a long time. Our earlier efforts should have been directed more tightly at meeting Iraqis' day-to-day needs."b'To speed up those larger projects, I should have also insisted on exemption from the usual bureaucratic and contracting rules. This lesson was brought home to me in a dramatic fashion a few weeks after I arrived. We had learned that six major hospitals in Baghdad urgently needed new generators to run their operating rooms and air-conditioning plants. Our budget director told me I could use American funds, which were subject to United States federal contracting rules, or Iraqi government funds, which were not. Using American money, he told me, would mean waiting four to six months for the generators. We used Iraqi funds and got the equipment in eight days. In the future, Congress must make provisions for legitimate exemptions.'b'Another clear lesson is that the United States must be better prepared for the post-conflict phase should we find ourselves in similar military situations in the future. The administration has made a good start by setting up offices of reconstruction in the State and Defense Departments. But the effort must be broadened through the government and especially the private sector. The goal should be a quick-reaction, public-private Civilian Reserve Corps consisting of people with expertise on matters like the establishment of telecommunications facilities, rebuilding of electrical power plants, modernizing health care systems and instituting modern budgeting procedures.'b'Last, much attention has been paid to my concern about the need to retain adequate manpower to defeat the terrorists and insurgents. Our military leaders said they had sufficient forces to ensure law and order, and that additional soldiers might increase Iraqi hostility. Theirs was a respectable argument. But I disagreed with it. And while I had concerns about the quality of Iraqi forces two years ago, their training has since been revamped. Today they are playing an increasingly important role in defending Iraq.'b'Despite the missteps and setbacks, there is little question that, thanks to efforts by the American-led coalition, enormous political and economic progress is being made in Iraq today.'b"Two years ago, Al Qaeda's leader in Iraq, Abu Musab Zarqawi, told his followers there that there would be no place for them in a democratic Iraq. One year later, Iraqis voted in the country's first genuine elections. Then they wrote and approved a new Constitution. And last month 70 percent of voters turned out to elect a new Parliament. Now that body should modify the Constitution to address legitimate concerns of the Sunnis."b"As for Iraq's economy, at liberation it was flat on its back: the World Bank estimated that in 2003 the economy contracted by 41 percent. Now Iraq benefits from an independent central bank, and a new currency whose stability is a remarkable indicator of confidence. The economy is open to foreign investment and commercial laws have been modernized. The International Monetary Fund reports that per-capita income has doubled in the last two years and predicts that Iraq's economy will grow 17 percent this year. No wonder registration of new businesses has jumped 67 percent in the last six months."b'There is, of course, still much to be done. American troops and Iraqis continue to die battling criminal elements of the Saddam Hussein regime and Qaeda terrorists. President Bush has correctly identified Iraq as the central front in the war on terrorism, as Osama bin Laden himself acknowledged when he told his followers "the third world war has begun in Iraq" and that it would "end there in victory and glory, or misery and humiliation."'b'Despite these enormous stakes, some Americans have called for setting a timetable for our withdrawal or even pulling out now. This would be a historic mistake: a betrayal of the sacrifices Americans and Iraqis have made; a victory of the terrorists everywhere; and step toward a more dangerous world.'b'Op-Ed Contributor L. Paul Bremer III, the former director of the Coalition Provisional Authority, is the author of "My Year in Iraq: The Struggle to Build a Future of Hope."'b'Which is the more damaging: James Frey\'s fabrications of some parts of his best-selling memoir, "A Million Little Pieces," or his publisher\'s initial peculiar defense of him, which amounted to a shrug of the shoulders? We say, Why choose? According to an inquiry by an investigative Web site, Mr. Frey clearly appears to have overstated his bad-boy bona fides by claiming to have done hard time when he did hardly any time at all. And as for Doubleday, which published "A Million Little Pieces," it seemed to defend Mr. Frey by arguing that the memoir, as a genre, is fundamentally subjective (but later said future editions would include an author\'s note). Its real argument, however, was why argue with success?'b"The memoir is, indeed, a loose and slippery genre -- as loose and slippery as memory itself. And there's a difference, even in publishing, between the lies we tell about ourselves and the lies we tell about others. It is a rare publisher that troubles to fact-check an author's claims, especially in times when proofreading can seem like too much trouble. But Doubleday's defense of Mr. Frey isn't about the author or the genre. It's about the audience's response."b'"The power of the overall reading experience," Doubleday said in a press release, "is such that the book remains a deeply inspiring and redemptive story for millions of readers." But would millions of readers have picked up "A Million Little Pieces" and been redeemed and inspired by it if the publisher and the author had called it fiction? Would Oprah Winfrey -- despite her phone call during Mr. Frey\'s appearance on "Larry King Live"-- have made so much of the book if she had thought that its subjectivity was something closer to falsehood? The answer is probably not. "The power of the overall reading experience" depended on the faith that "A Million Little Pieces" was the unvarnished truth -- not just "his version of the truth" or "true to his recollections." Even in a nation like ours, which is crazy for personal redemption, readers are still willing to distinguish between truth and fiction.'b"Fourteen months ago, Richard Codey became New Jersey's acting governor in a less than ideal way, stepping in when James McGreevey resigned amid a sex scandal and corruption investigations. Mr. Codey knew he would not get a full term; he bowed to the self-financed campaign of Jon Corzine, who takes office next week. But Mr. Codey was not a mere caretaker -- he demonstrated direction, purpose and a sense of humor seldom seen in Trenton."b"In his brief but shining moments, Mr. Codey bluntly told elected officials that they would be subject to long-overdue accountability standards, and they joined him in tightening ethics rules. He directed money to expanded mental health care, money that will be used to replace antiquated facilities. Drawing on his family's experience, he and his wife opened a discussion of postpartum depression and won help for uninsured pregnant women. He fought to dedicate public money to stem cell research. He mandated steroid tests for high school athletes. He tightened the rules on security around chemical plants. His smoking ban should have not exempted casinos, but it will clear the air in other restaurants, bars and workplaces."b"Mr. Codey admits that he was not able to solve the inequity of a tax system that depends on enormous property taxes, or to make deficits go away. But he deserves credit for restoring voters' belief that in the right hands, state government can work for them."b"He did all this even as he continued to serve as president of the State Senate. That is a troubling consolidation of power allowed by the state's Constitution. But Mr. Codey did not abuse it. Next week he will return full time to the Senate, where, he says, he will have new respect for what's facing Mr. Corzine."b'WASHINGTON'b"The day we mourned a man whose life was devoted to clarity, this city was hidden in fog. You couldn't see the Potomac, even on its bank."b'There were many things to love about 'b'David Rosenbaum'b'. He had a grin that always improved the weather. He was uncommonly generous to reporters he worked with and competed against. He was an exemplary husband, father, brother, uncle and grandfather.'b'But the truly astonishing thing about David, the Times reporter who was killed in a random robbery a week ago, was his unglamorous, unsanctimonious, unvain sort of goodness. He had a black-and-white sense of honor that was oddly old-fashioned in a capital slimed by lies, bribery, greed, corruption and ends-justify-the-means malarkey.'b"The skells, as Detective Sipowicz would say, saw David walking in his  neighborhood after dinner and whacked him in the head with a pipe. One low-life bought laundry detergent, gas and tires with David's credit card while he lay dying."b'Our friend David Shribman, the executive editor of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, wrote in The St. Petersburg Times, where David Rosenbaum started: "A thoughtful man struck down by the ultimate act of thoughtlessness. A man who taught others when to use \'that\' and when to use \'which\' only to be felled by that over which he had no control."'b"Despite George Washington and the cherry tree, we no longer have a society especially consecrated to truth. The culture produces an infinity of TV shows and movies depicting the importance of honesty. But they're really talking only about the importance of being honest about your feelings. Sharing feelings is not the same thing as telling the truth. We've become a country of situationalists."b"Journalism, politics and publishing have been tarred by scandals that have revealed a chilling insensitivity to right and wrong. Random House isn't concerned that an author makes up stuff in a book labeled nonfiction; it just kept counting the money after The Smoking Gun exposed James Frey's lies about his own life."b'When Mr. Frey went on "Larry King Live" with his mom to defend his book\'s "essential truths," Oprah Winfrey called in  to back him up. She sounded disturbingly like Scott McClellan. Despite doubts about facts in the book, she said, "the underlying message of redemption" still "resonates" with her. She should have said: "Had I known that many parts were fake, I wouldn\'t have recommended the book to millions of loyal viewers. I wouldn\'t have made this liar a lot of money." She should take a page from Stephen Colbert and put the slippery Frey on her "Dead to me" list.'b'For David Rosenbaum, just retired at 63 but still full of enthusiasms, there was a right way and a wrong way, and he possessed a natural knowledge of which was which.'b'"My father taught me the importance of always doing the right thing, always, even when it didn\'t really matter," his daughter, Dottie, said at the memorial service yesterday in a committee room at the Senate, David\'s old beat. "At my 12th birthday party, my parents took me and a bunch of friends to see a movie, and they counted up how many of us were already 12 so that they could pay the adult fare. ...  even though none of us carried ID, and we all looked like total pipsqueaks."'b'As his pal Robin Toner put it, David thought that behind every arcane tax provision and appropriations bill, "there were real people, getting something or having something taken away by their government." You had to keep digging and arguing  to find the truth in the fog. Even when he was smothered by conventional wisdom, Robin recalled, "David\'s voice would break out: \'I disagree!\' "'b"He was practicing a lost art. Tough questioning now has no place in polite society. It's the wimpification of debate. Martha-Ann Alito cries, and the Democrats back off from examining why Samuel Alito was so opportunistic about his bigoted alumni club and whether he will curb women's rights for generations."b"W. mau-maus the Democrats and the press on his administration's Freyish blurring of fact and fiction on Iraq, trying to stifle any debate over the phony genesis of the war as bad for morale. What's truly bad for  our morale is when the president suggests it's dishonest to have an honest debate about the Bush cabal's dishonesty."b'If only someone had said, "I disagree!" in W.\'s presence long ago, on pre-emptive war, on kidnapping and torture, on illegal eavesdropping.'b"David's tortoise-shell reading glasses are still hanging on his computer. That scrupulous gaze will be missed."b'Shortly before the 2004 election, Garrison Keillor published "Homegrown Democrat," explaining at great length why he is a Democrat, and at greater length why Democrats are better human beings than Republicans. It became, of course, a best seller.'b'As evidence of moral superiority, Keillor told how paramedics in St. Paul had appeared at his door within two minutes when his daughter had convulsions. This municipal service, he explained, was part of the "civil contract" that urban Democrats offered.'b'"In the suburbs, thanks to Republicans and their code of personal responsibility, the coronary victim will have time to read the entire Gospel of St. Mark before help arrives," he wrote. "There is a message here: if lower taxes are your priority over human life, then we know what sort of person you are."'b"This week in Washington, a city run by Democrats with Keillor's views on taxes and public services, the municipal ambulance service has been making news for the help it didn't provide to David Rosenbaum. David, a friend and colleague of mine at The New York Times, died Sunday from severe injuries to his head and body from a mugging two nights earlier near his home."b'David was still alive and conscious when a neighbor found him lying on the sidewalk and summoned help, but it took 23 minutes for the city ambulance to arrive and another 25 minutes for him to reach the hospital. He was not examined for at least another hour at the hospital, according to The Washington Post, which reported that the ambulance technicians failed to detect his injuries and mistakenly told hospital workers that he was drunk.'b'I do not mention these facts to make a case against government-run ambulance services.  That would be a disservice to David. He abhorred argument by anecdote, especially from conservatives who used bureaucratic horror stories to justify their policies. David spent three decades covering Washington but never became a cynic, never lost faith that public servants could do good. "I like paying taxes," he used to say.'b"But he also never confused good intentions with good results. He would have found Keillor's pieties as useless as the pronouncements of right-wing moralists."b"He was a wonk's wonk. If you had asked him whether city ambulance services were better than the private ambulance companies hired by suburban governments, he wouldn't have answered until he'd filled a manila folder with studies and interview notes. I like to think he would have seen the advantages of privatization, but the wonderful thing about David - the reason I went to him so often for guidance - was that you couldn't guess what he'd conclude."b"He knew that both parties proclaimed noble goals and stuffed ignoble fine print into the budgets and tax bills he dissected. As Washington became polarized and politics was cast as a battle between virtue and evil, David remained a journalist trusted by both sides. The Times's first public editor, Daniel Okrent, read  more than 15,000 complaints from readers about the paper's coverage, but he can't recall any about a Rosenbaum article."b'"David had absolutely no agenda," said Warren Rudman, the former Republican senator from New Hampshire. "A lot of reporters do seem to have an end they\'re trying to get to. David just wanted to understand what was going on, and I always marveled how he got it right."'b"In 1999, when Congress was rushing to regulate health maintenance organizations, members of both parties spent an afternoon telling a litany of stories of suffering patients, culminating with the appearance on the House floor of a 7-year-old boy who had lost his hands and legs. David reported the stories, but he also noted what wasn't being said: health care costs had been devastating companies and governments until expenses were controlled by managed-care companies."b'"No one rose to the industry\'s defense," he wrote. "As far as the House of Representatives was concerned, the cost of health care, one of the central political questions facing the country, was a subject for another time and another place."'b'That was not the kind of insight that got David on talk shows or the best-seller list, but it won him legions of admirers in Washington. The Alito confirmation hearing was recessed yesterday so that senators could attend the  memorial service  on Capitol Hill. The room was packed and the tears were bipartisan as politicians and journalists tried to come to terms with his death. It was so senseless, so irrational, so unfair. So unlike David.'b'It would be nice to believe that New Orleans could be made whole, exactly as it was before Hurricane Katrina devastated it. But that kind of wishful thinking, apparently prevalent among some New Orleanians and encouraged by some city leaders, will only stymie the reconstruction process. The nation cannot rebuild everywhere in New Orleans, nor should it.'b"The city's rebuilding commission took an important step this week when it recommended that only the areas that could muster sufficient population should be rebuilt. Not surprisingly, that announcement drew the ire of residents of some neighborhoods where generations have lived on the same plots of land. While that is an ideal that should be protected wherever possible, it cannot define the rebuilding process."b'The lowest-lying, hardest-hit areas, like parts of New Orleans East, the Lower Ninth Ward and Lakeview, are also the most vulnerable to future hurricanes and flooding. Some of the blocks farthest below sea level should be turned into parks to allow better drainage, as recommended by the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit research group -- even though that will be difficult to say to the residents of those areas.'b"Even with a commitment from Washington to build optimal protection against the fiercest Category 5 storms -- which hasn't happened yet -- the work would take years to complete. Residents should not be encouraged to gamble with their insurance checks for political or emotional reasons."b"It is not a coincidence that many of those hard-hit, low-lying areas have had poor and predominantly African-American residents. That injustice needs to be corrected, not recreated. Whether owners or renters, the people from less-protected areas should be compensated so they have enough money to live somewhere else in town. The answer is not to thrust people back into harm's way, especially when it's unclear how much hurricane protection the city will really have in the coming years."b"Rosy predictions do not help the city's most vulnerable displaced residents. The city government has to be straight with its constituents. For the foreseeable future, New Orleans will be a smaller city with a smaller population and a smaller tax base. If local leaders proffer unrealistic solutions, they will only strengthen the hand of those opposed to a real rebuilding commitment for New Orleans."b'President Bush sounded out of touch as usual this week when he called the still-ravaged city "a heck of a place to bring your family." Rather than conjuring up memories of Michael Brown, the erstwhile head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Mr. Bush could better spend his time increasing the pressure on Congress to act on some version of Representative Richard Baker\'s federal buyout legislation. Lawmakers in Washington should take up the bill.'b"One way to cut down on the number of inmates who end up right back in prison shortly after being released is to make sure that they preserve their ties with their families, especially with spouses and children, while they are serving time. But keeping in touch is often impossible for inmates and their families because of state prison systems that earn huge profits from inmates' phone calls by forcing the family members who receive those collect calls to pay usurious rates. As a result, a family must often choose between talking to a loved one in prison and putting food on the table."b'A bill introduced in Congress by Representative Bobby Rush, Democrat of Illinois, would help end this shameful practice by requiring the Federal Communications Commission to set fair rates for interstate phone calls made from prison. The bill will surely face fierce opposition from the telecommunications lobby and from state prison systems that have grown accustomed to gouging the poorest families in the country to subsidize some prison-related activities. But the current arrangement is both counterproductive and morally indefensible.'b'State prison systems typically use telephone setups that permit only collect calls, made through providers that keep a monopoly on prison telephone service by paying the states a "commission" -- essentially a legal kickback. The kickback does not materialize out of thin air. The people who receive the phone calls often pay as much as six times the going rate. Not surprisingly, the costs discourage inmates from keeping in touch with spouses and children who may live hundreds of miles away and find it difficult or impossible to visit.'b'Federal prisons use a significantly less expensive debit-calling system, which lets inmates use the money accumulated in computer-controlled accounts to place easily monitored calls to a limited group of phone numbers. The Rush bill would require prisons to use both collect-calling and debit-calling systems. It would also prohibit providers from paying kickbacks to prison systems, and would require each prison system to allow more than one phone company to enter the market. In addition, the law would not let prison phone providers refuse to place calls to phone numbers served by rival companies.'b'Prison systems are likely to argue that the current arrangement is just fine because it helps pay for programs that benefit the inmates. But the high phone rates are actually a hidden tax on people who already pay for the prisons through their taxes. Beyond that, the states should not be in the business of bleeding low-income families -- and fraying already fragile family ties -- to pay for services that the state itself is obligated to provide.'b'There is a good possibility that the Drawing Center, currently based in SoHo, may find a new home next to the South Street Seaport in what was once part of the old Fulton Fish Market. This is welcome news, though it still depends on the result of negotiations between the center and the city, which owns the site. The city says it hopes to make the Drawing Center part of the effort to rebuild Lower Manhattan, and there is no question that the stretch of waterfront along the East River where the new center would rise needs rebuilding. This would be the happy outcome of a woeful tale.'b'The Drawing Center, of course, was once part of other plans to rebuild Lower Manhattan. It was going to inhabit a planned cultural center at ground zero, until, in a memorable spasm of apparently unscripted patriotism, Gov. George Pataki made it impossible for the center to remain.'b'If nothing else, the battle over culture at ground zero made it perfectly clear that Governor Pataki favors free speech, but only if it takes place in another part of town.'b"It's easy to see what the Drawing Center has gained by going its own way. It will, for one thing, have the ability to do what it does best -- exhibit drawings -- without worrying about nervous politicians looking over its shoulder. It will also free itself from the enervating squabbles over just how 9/11 should be represented."b'The real question is what ground zero has lost by losing the Drawing Center. The answer depends on many things, especially the perplexing fate of the memorial design and the character of the inchoate memorial museum. At best, ground zero has lost the ability to stand for freedom of speech, that most American principle. At worst, it risks becoming a deeply fragmented place, divided between mourning and shopping.'b"Los Angeles - HOLLYWOOD'S annual award season gets under way in earnest Monday with the Golden Globe ceremony, which means everyone in this town has one thing uppermost in mind -- swag."b'Ever since Giorgio Armani began doling out free tuxedos and evening gowns to select Oscar nominees, Hollywood award shows have turned into red carpet marketing bonanzas. Celebrities now expect to receive thousands of dollars worth of merchandise -- jewelry, perfume, sunglasses, cosmetics, vacations, electronics and other assorted bling -- in exchange for even brief appearances at glamorous events.'b'"Oh, you\'ve got to get that gift box," as one A-list actress, who had flown halfway around the planet to be a presenter at the Golden Globe last year, explained to me in a tone of voice that fell somewhere between self-mocking and greed. In fact, greed doesn\'t do justice to what goes on when celebrities, assistants and assorted hangers-on all demand to be "gifted."'b'And swag isn\'t just backstage anymore. In addition to the gift bags, dozens of "complimentary style lounges" spring up like tent cities across Los Angeles during the award season.'b'In these lounges, celebrities, whose gift-worthiness is delineated by color-coded wrist bands -- black gets you the $250 jeans, white gets you the T-shirt and a can of Red Bull -- help themselves to free merchandise in exchange for the requisite photo op.'b"The prevailing wisdom is that gift bags and swag suites are a marketing no-brainer: the happy confluence of our celebrity-obsessed culture and an increasingly crowded marketplace. Why limit a star's high-profile limbs to Armani and Harry Winston, the thinking goes, when you can press a footlocker's worth of products onto their backs and into their hands?"b'But that premise is turning out to be, well, wrong. The novelty has long since worn off; in fact, the gift bag industry has become so over-saturated that it no longer really works as advertised.'b"Behind all the hype, the fact remains that for most marketing executives paying four- and five-figure fees for the privilege of tossing their company's latest product, be it a $600 P.D.A. or a $6,000 golf vacation, into a crowded gift bag that may or may not wind up in the hands of a celebrity, who may or may not be photographed using the product, who may instead re-gift the product to a housekeeper, does not increase sales. Instead, it may actually damage the product's image."b'For a growing number of companies -- Stila and M.A.C. cosmetics, Palm Pilot and Roomba vacuums come to mind -- gift bags have proved to be nothing more than an expensive hoax that they are now spurning. As one marketing consultant who spoke on the condition of anonymity put it, gift bags and swag suites "are the last place I would put a client" because "we haven\'t seen it work yet."'b"Which leaves me wondering when Hollywood is going to wise up and realize that greed not only isn't good; it's seriously bad P.R. You don't need to look at the dismal state of the movie industry, the declines in ticket sales and the growing ennui among audiences, to know that stardom has undergone a serious devaluation, that celebrity has become another commodity and a pretty cheap one at that."b'Certainly, other factors are at play -- not the least of which is that audiences themselves are now increasingly interested in freebies, reluctant to pay for movies, music and television shows. And no one is na\xc3\xafve enough to think that stars of yore were any less rapacious than celebrities today.'b"But the Oliviers, Grants and Hepburns understood the currency of their celebrity in a way that's been lost. The cynicism engendered by the vulgarity of showering thousands of dollars worth of products on celebrities, nearly all of who can afford to buy the items many times over, has repercussions that extend beyond the green room. If they expect audiences to continue to fork over the price of a movie ticket to bask in their presence, stars need to create at least the illusion of integrity."b"A few seem to get it. Glenn Close turned heads at the Golden Globes last year when she arrived on the red carpet wearing her own dress rather than a designer freebie. Keanu Reeves made news at the Sundance Film festival last winter -- where the corporate-sponsored swag suites threatened to outnumber the films in competition -- by pointedly turning down handouts that included plasma screen TV's."b'But swag is a powerful force, and for things to really change, Hollywood has to see the upside of going swag-free -- the way it came to understand that it looked better to pull up to that red carpet in a Prius rather than a Humvee.'b'To this end, one of the major awards shows should step forward and publicly drop its use of presenter gift bags as five-figure bribes. The show will find, I imagine, that the stars will still come. Then, maybe a couple of celebrities will recognize the P.R. potential of declaring themselves Hollywood\'s first swag-free zones, and take their high-profile limbs off the "For Sale" rack.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Hilary de Vries is the author of "The Gift Bag Chronicles," a novel.'b'Beirut - THIS week Senator Hillary Clinton, citing a secret Pentagon report that suggested some marines killed in Iraq might have survived had they been wearing more body armor, became the latest in a long line of politicians to castigate the Pentagon for a supposed failure to adequately protect our fighting men and women. Well-intentioned as the senator might be, the body-armor issue, like so many in war, is just not that simple.'b'From 2000 until 2004, I was an infantry officer in the Army. I deployed with a light-infantry platoon to Afghanistan in 2002, then with a platoon of Army Rangers to Iraq in 2003 and back to Afghanistan in 2004. While I can testify that soldiers usually appreciate the protection body armor gives them, the load shouldered by the average infantryman often hinders his ability to fight -- especially at high altitude as in Afghanistan.'b'But in Iraq, as well, the "soldier\'s load" is often unbearable. Most studies recommend that a soldier should not be burdened with more than one-third of his body weight. But if you take a 160-pound soldier and put 40 pounds of Kevlar and body armor on him and then he picks up an automatic weapon, ammunition, water and first aid equipment, it\'s not long before he is carrying half his body weight -- and he is then expected to run, jump and fight insurgents, themselves carrying little more than a 10-pound AK-47. All of this, of course, often takes place in 120-degree heat in the cities of Iraq.'b"Lost among the politicians' cries for more extensive armor for the troops is the fact that most soldiers, in my experience and based on discussions with many, feel they have enough armor already -- and many feel they are increasingly being burdened with too much equipment. And the new supplementary body armor unveiled this week in Washington doubles the weight of the equipment -- worn over the torso and, now, the upper arms -- to 32 pounds from 16 pounds (for a medium-sized soldier)."b'While an Army spokesman said yesterday that the new equipment was developed based on feedback from units in the field -- and certainly, he assured me, not from any political pressure -- the statements from soldiers in Iraq tell a different story.'b'An article last week from The Associated Press noted that "soldiers in the field were not all supportive of a Pentagon study that found improved body armor saves lives" and that some argued "that more armor would hinder combat effectiveness."'b'As an Army captain told The A.P.: "You\'ve got to sacrifice some protection for mobility. If you cover your entire body in ceramic plates, you\'re just not going to be able to move."'b"Thankfully, many military leaders at both the tactical and strategic levels recognize they must strike a balance between protecting soldiers and preserving their mobility and fighting abilities. At some point, the public's desire to wrap ourtroops in a protective blanket of armor just gets ridiculous."b'"We don\'t want a medieval knight," Maj. Gen. Stephen M. Speakes, the director of force development for the Army, said this week. "We are not going to be hoisted onto a horse."'b"Similarly, lower-ranking Army officers and noncommissioned officers with whom I have spoken over the past few days stress the need for two things: the development of lighter armor, and also the preservation of a leader's right to tailor his unit's load -- including the body armor they wear -- depending on the mission."b'Sadly, this controversy -- like the debates over Army interrogation tactics, prisoner abuse and troop withdrawals -- takes place within the context of a nation grown weary of its adventure in Iraq and a Bush administration on the defensive. Elected officials like Senator Clinton, while no doubt genuinely motivated by concern for the welfare of our soldiers, also see political opportunity. And the voices that get overlooked are the most important ones: those of the soldiers themselves.'b'Much of this furor started a year ago when a soldier from my hometown, Chattanooga, Tenn. -- apparently encouraged by an embedded reporter from the local newspaper (which, incidentally, was once owned by my family) -- complained of digging through scrap heaps to jury-rig "hillbilly armor" for his unit\'s vehicles in a Kuwait question-and-answer session with Donald Rumsfeld.'b'Secretary Rumsfeld\'s callous answer -- "You go to war with the Army you have, not the Army you might want or wish to have" -- was roundly criticized as being out of touch with what the rest of America felt: that the men and women who serve our country in battle deserve nothing but the best equipment.'b"The problem with this noble sentiment is that the American public and its elected representatives don't always understand what military officers and soldiers do: that the safety of individual soldiers must always be balanced against the ability to accomplish the unit mission."b'I worry that this timeless lesson is now being forgotten in the interest of minimizing American casualties. "Protecting soldiers," as an Army spokesman told me the other day, "is our No. 1 priority."'b"Excuse me, but shouldn't winning the war be our No. 1 priority?"b'Op-Ed Contributor Andrew Exum is the author of "This Man\'s Army."'b"In the past, the public dialogue about Corporate America's move away from traditional pensions for retirees centered on struggling industries -- steel, airlines -- that had dumped their pension obligations on the federal government. But the announcement last week that the financially healthy technology giant I.B.M. will freeze its pension system reiterates the message businesses are increasingly sending their employees: you're on your own."b"By all accounts, I.B.M. has an excellent 401(k) plan as an alternative to pensions. The plan includes automatic company contributions to employee accounts, which means that even those workers who decide not to set aside any part of their own salaries will have something to fall back on. The company will also match employee contributions up to a level as high as 6 percent of an individual's pay, depending on when the person was hired."b"Considering that most plans give no more than 50 cents on the dollar in matching donations, that's very generous by today's standards. But today's standards are the problem. Even a good 401(k) doesn't offer the safety of most old-fashioned pensions, which pay out a guaranteed set of benefits to retirees."b"A safe retirement based on a 401(k) account requires decades of discipline, something many people don't have. A recent study by Hewitt Associates, the employee benefits research firm, found that 45 percent of workers cashed out their 401(k)'s when leaving a company, instead of leaving the money in the plan or rolling it over into a new one. And some workers cannot or do not participate in the retirement plans available to them."b'As a society, we have proved unwilling to deal in any comprehensive way with the looming retirement crisis that is likely to occur in the years when the baby boom generation leaves the workplace. The deal between workers and businesses is breaking down, and there is nothing to take its place. It is incumbent on our elected leaders, along with business and labor leaders, to confront this issue now. Poor investment decisions or a market downturn as an employee is entering retirement and needs to draw on the funds can be the difference between a secure retirement and an old age spent in poverty.'b"Garrison, N.Y. - WHEN it comes to the latest technology trends, many parents give their children whatever they want and then fail to watch how they use it. They give their sons and daughters cellphones as a way to track their whereabouts, but lose sight of whom their children talk to. They give their teenagers their own computer to keep up with schoolwork and socialize with friends, but don't monitor who they e-mail or what chat rooms they enter. As a technology specialist and parent, I too am guilty of these parental oversights."b"As technology evolves, there's always something for parents to be wary of, the latest being blogs, or online diaries and journals."b"About a month ago, I borrowed my daughter's laptop. As I opened it, I noticed that she had one of her friend's blogs open. I was surprised to see that this 12-year-old had revealed very personal information about herself, including where she lived, and had posted at least 30 pictures of her friends, including my daughter. Worse, however, she had listed her age as 18. I asked my daughter why, and she said her friend probably wanted to attract older boys."b'Many parents have no idea that their children are creating personal blogs like this on sites like myspace.com, myjournal.com, xanga.com and facebook.com. These sites, modern-day social registers for teenagers and preteens, are extremely popular. According to the Pew Internet and American Life Project, more than 20 percent of 12- to 17-year-olds have blogs, even though many blog-hosting sites have age restrictions.'b'Used properly, blogs offer children a way to keep in touch with their friends by sharing details from their daily lives and dreams. But unfortunately, these sites are magnets for child molesters. According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, one in five children is sexually solicited over the Internet.'b"What should parents do if they know their child has a blog? The solution is simple: Don't let your children talk to strangers, including online strangers. Tell them to be especially careful about supplying personal information when creating accounts for email, Instant Messaging, online journals or any other sites. And it's probably not a good idea for them to give revealing details about their friends on their blogs. Seemingly innocent postings and photos on their site only increase the risks of exposing an entire community to Internet predators."b"If you're not sure your child has a blog, go to one of the many online journal Web sites and type in your child's name, school, e-mail address or hometown. If your child's name comes up, take a look at his profile, what he says about himself and what kind of photos he's posting. If there's something that concerns you, talk to your child."b'The Federal Bureau of investigation and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children offer parents advice for detecting whether their child is engaging in appropriate behavior. For example, the F.B.I. Web site has a "Parents\' Guide to Internet Safety" that gives helpful information on how to tell if your child is being targeted by a sex offender, and how to minimize the chances of someone victimizing your child online.'b"But it's not just the parents who should assume the burden of monitoring a child's Internet activities. As Internet access becomes the norm in classrooms, schools need to start taking greater responsibility. Many schools in New York install Internet filters on their networks, but perhaps school districts throughout the state should start requiring mandatory Internet safety classes."b"I called the parents of my daughter's friend who had listed herself as 18 on her blog. It wasn't an easy thing to do; you never know how parents will react to that kind of information. Will they appreciate it or berate you for your intrusiveness? In this case, the parents were grateful. As it turned out, their daughter revealed she had been contacted by two men through her blog, but had the good sense not to respond."b"The mother has since shared her daughter's experience with other local families, which is commendable because when it comes to technology, the more we know, the better."b'Op-Ed Contributor Sue Downes owns a computer consulting business and gives lectures on Internet safety.'b"The Irish have a word for it -- gobsmacked -- that properly describes the astonishment of Representative Peter King and other Irish-Americans at the news that Denis Donaldson, long a trusted leader in Ireland's rebel movement, has been spying for Britain for decades."b'"Don\'t you remember him?" asked Mr. King, a New York Republican close to the Irish peace process. He was recalling a noisy night 19 years ago at a Belfast social club -- a bastion protected by battle-ready guards and barbed wire -- where supporters of the outlawed Irish Republican Army drank lager and whiskey and sang rebel songs. Mr. Donaldson was one of the throatiest at our table in singing of Irish liberty and the British yoke.'b'"I mean, he was so socially and culturally one of them," said Mr. King, gobsmacked indeed at Mr. Donaldson\'s confession last month and the ensuing uproar it caused for his former colleagues in the leadership of Sinn Fein, the republican political party.'b"Mr. Donaldson was arrested four years ago on suspicion that he was spying against Britain from his Sinn Fein post within the Northern Irish peace process. That sensational arrest helped scuttle the delicate power-sharing venture by the warring factions in Ireland's modern Troubles. And now comes word from Mr. Donaldson that, in truth, he was taking money all along to spy in behalf of the queen's intelligence operatives."b'"No one in Irish America knows quite what to make of it," wrote Niall O\'Dowd, publisher of Irish Voice on this side of the Atlantic. Mr. O\'Dowd well remembered the important Sinn Fein missions to New York by Mr. Donaldson -- "the little man with the big smile and smooth talk."'b'Mr. King thinks the Irish are so far along the peace road that discovery of a Celtic Pimpernel will hardly return them to sectarian strife. "But you\'ve got to wonder: even a novelist wouldn\'t think of this sort of stuff," he said rather appreciatively.'b'Historically, insurgent movements the world over suffer this sort of treachery. The novelist Liam O\'Flaherty memorably conjured up an Irish version 80 years ago in "The Informer," in which Gypo Nolan, a failed policeman, sells out his rebel buddy to the British authorities for passage to America.'b'Mr. Donaldson said he became a spy after "compromising myself during a vulnerable time in my life." This echoes Gypo Nolan\'s weepy despair in the movie version after he was caught and marked for execution: "Isn\'t there a man here who can tell me why I did it?" Gypo cries out to his fellow Irishmen, gobsmacked all.   FRANCIS X. CLINES'b"In Albany, it's never a good idea to open the Champagne too early -- especially if it's to celebrate reform."b"Just as the television cameras shut down their lights last June on lawmakers proclaiming their good deeds for the people, you could almost hear the back rooms of New York's State Capitol fill with people trying to tinker with, stall or basically undo what good had been done. So it was hardly a surprise recently to find out that two of the big reforms celebrated last June have been put off for months, for reasons that sound pretty piddling."b'The reasons may not, of course, be piddling to some people. These are reforms that could save taxpayers millions, which probably means they could also cost some Albany insiders a bundle.'b'The most important reform last year -- in many years, in fact -- involved the state lobbying law. Previously, lobbyists had to register only when they were collaring lawmakers to argue for or against a bill. The new law was intended to close a big loophole that allowed lobbyists who were seeking fat state contracts to go about their business secretly -- without registering with the lobbying commission.'b"The law took effect this month, but it is not clear whether the guidelines can be enforced. And the state's lobbying commission, which has known about this law since June, has suggested that it will take its time enforcing this important change."b'David Grandeau, the executive director of the commission, has said that so few lobbyists have registered that it is not clear whether people are confused or simply hiding. At one point, Mr. Grandeau said that his agency would probably spend the next year working on "education, not enforcement." Any unnecessary delays would give the likes of former Senator Alfonse D\'Amato -- who famously earned $500,000 for one phone call to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority -- a lot of extra time to stay on the gravy train.'b'A second important reform that has been delayed involves state authorities, those notoriously secretive, quasi-government entities that borrow billions of dollars with little public oversight. Although a reform bill was passed in June, the State Senate did not send it to Gov. George Pataki until the last possible minute last year.'b"The governor promised his support for this law, which could go into effect as late as February. But why the delay? Mr. Pataki's people say it is because they needed time to appoint some extra members to some authority boards as required by the new law. Talk about taking your time. Six months to find a few new people?"b"In the meantime, New York's good government groups gave out the reform report card last week for last year's session. The release noted that although the overall score for last year was a C-, that was a lot better than the usual F. And they noted, rightly, that there is still plenty of reform needed. Redistricting, campaign finance reform, gift bans and more; lawmakers have to get to work cleaning out the legislative stable. And the rest of us need to make certain that the reforms they have made will actually work."b'It is commonly supposed that the health of Long Island Sound is chiefly the responsibility of the shoreline communities in Long Island, Westchester County and Connecticut. This is largely true. It is also true, however, that New York City has long been a major contributor to the environmental ills that afflict this noblest of American estuaries.'b'The main reason is four antiquated municipal sewage treatment plants on the East River. Every day of every year, these plants deposit hundreds of thousands of gallons of partly treated wastewater into the river, which then, with tidal certainty, propels the tainted water into the Sound itself.'b'The most damaging of the pollutants leaving the plants is nitrogen -- useful as a fertilizer on land but, in sufficient quantities, fatal to bodies of water like the Sound, where it stimulates the growth of bacteria and algae and robs the water of oxygen. This condition is known as hypoxia, and it suffocates marine life. Roughly half the nitrogen comes from treatment plants and other sources in about 80 shoreline communities, the other half comes from the New York City plants.'b'It is thus cause for great celebration that the city agreed last week to settle a longstanding legal action and spend at least $700 million to upgrade these four plants, cutting their nitrogen output by nearly 60 percent by 2017. Audubon New York, a leader among the environmental groups that helped shape the agreement and move it forward when negotiations seemed to falter, called the agreement an historic moment in the struggle to restore the Sound to good health.'b"In retrospect, the most important moment in that struggle -- the moment from which all else has flowed, including last week's agreement-- came in 1994, when New York and Connecticut, after sustained pressure from the federal Environmental Protection Agency, approved a comprehensive plan to clean up the Sound. The city's main responsibility was to modernize its sewage treatment plants. The Giuliani administration left the bulk of the task to Mayor Michael Bloomberg."b"Alarmed by the project's estimated $1.3 billion price tag, Mr. Bloomberg dispatched Christopher Ward, then the environmental commissioner, to Europe and elsewhere to find new, more cost-efficient waste treatment technologies. In due course, Mr. Ward and his counterpart in Albany, Erin Crotty, reached an agreement in principle to retrofit the plants at well under the original cost. Mr. Ward and Ms. Crotty left public service, but after further haggling aimed partly at ensuring that future city administrations could not wiggle out of the deal, and after further prodding by Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, their successors, Emily Lloyd and Denise Sheehan, brought the matter to a close."b'This does not mean the Sound is no longer at risk. The Sound passes through the densest population corridor in the country, and will remain forever stressed by the 20 million people who live within 50 miles of its shores. Thus the shoreline communities in Long Island, Westchester and Connecticut must do more than ever to contain pollution.'b"So, too, must the federal government, which remains an important player. With President Bush's support, Congress recently authorized $40 million annually for various clean water projects under the Long Island Sound Restoration Act. But the Sound's many friends in the New York Congressional delegation must make sure that the money is actually appropriated."b'You would think that Senators Carl Levin and John McCain would have learned by now that you cannot deal in good faith with a White House that does not act in good faith. Yet both men struck bargains intended to restore the rule of law to American prison camps. And President Bush tossed them aside at the first opportunity.'b'Mr. Bush made a grand show of inviting Mr. McCain into the Oval Office last month to announce his support for a bill to require humane treatment of detainees at Guant\xc3\xa1namo Bay and other prisons run by the American military and intelligence agencies. He seemed to have managed to get Vice President Dick Cheney to stop trying to kill the proposed Congressional ban on torture of prisoners.'b'The White House also endorsed a bargain between Mr. Levin and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, which tempered somewhat a noxious proposal by Mr. Graham to deny a court hearing to anyone the president declares to be an "unlawful enemy combatant." The bargain with Mr. Levin removed language that stripped away cases already before the courts, which would have been an egregious usurpation of power by one branch of government, and it made clear that those cases should remain in the courts.'b'Mr. Bush, however, seems to see no limit to his imperial presidency. First, he issued a constitutionally ludicrous "signing statement" on the McCain bill. The message: Whatever Congress intended the law to say, he intended to ignore it on the pretext the commander in chief is above the law. That twisted reasoning is what led to the legalized torture policies, not to mention the domestic spying program.'b"Then Mr. Bush went after the judiciary, scrapping the Levin-Graham bargain. The solicitor general informed the Supreme Court last week that it no longer had jurisdiction over detainee cases. It said the court should drop an existing case in which a Yemeni national is challenging the military tribunals invented by Mr. Bush's morally challenged lawyers after 9/11. The administration is seeking to eliminate all other lawsuits filed by some of the approximately 500 men at Gitmo, the vast majority of whom have not been shown to pose any threat."b"Both of the offensive theories at work here -- that a president's intent in signing a bill trumps the intent of Congress in writing it, and that a president can claim power without restriction or supervision by the courts or Congress -- are pet theories of Judge Samuel Alito, the man Mr. Bush chose to tilt the Supreme Court to the right."b"The administration's behavior shows how high and immediate the stakes are in the Alito nomination, and how urgent it is for Congress to curtail Mr. Bush's expansion of power. Nothing in the national consensus to combat terrorism after 9/11 envisioned the unilateral rewriting of more than 200 years of tradition and law by one president embarked on an ideological crusade."b"NOW that J T Leroy and James Frey have been busted for duping the public in order to sell second-rate books, the monstrous question of what's fair and foul in fiction and nonfiction has reared its much-bashed head. Asked to referee the ethical contest between the two writers, I'd call J T Leroy a fine little prankster and Mr. Frey a skunk."b"Distinguishing between fiction and non- isn't nearly the taxing endeavor some would have us believe. Sexing a chicken is way harder. The nitty-gritty is that the novelist creates events for truthful interpretation, whereas the memoirist tries to honestly interpret events plagiarized from reality. And here's how readers know the difference: the label slapped on the jacket of the book."b'J T Leroy\'s work was packaged as fiction, though alluded to as fact. If readers bought the Leroy novel "Sarah" -- which tells the story of a young boy whose hooker mom dressed him as a girl and sold him to truckers -- because it was allegedly autobiographical, well, they still got what they ponied up for. It\'s a melodramatic gallop through the psychic landscape of someone blurring the boundaries of gender and identity.'b'Some years back, Mr. Leroy weaseled me into taking a call by dropping Mary Gaitskill\'s name. But he dropped the literary pretext right off. He didn\'t read the books I suggested, and instead asked advice about his addictions or the kid he claimed to be raising with a couple who had "adopted" him. He bragged a lot about meeting celebrities like Gus Van Sant and Diane Keaton. He was flattering and coquettish and pathologically indirect.'b'But while Mr. Leroy was besotted with the news media, he was skittish about scrutiny, and initially, refused to be photographed or give readings. The only time I saw him, at a reading in a packed Soho gallery, he shyly mounted the stage for a few minutes, then let the likes of Nancy Sinatra and Lou Reed do the reading he was "too timid" too undertake (this from somebody wearing a platinum wig the average drag queen would dust furniture with and a flamenco-esque hat like the one Michael Jackson flaunted in his "Black or White" video).'b'In the end, Mr. Leroy\'s whole enterprise was predicated on the tenets of drag -- lots of veils and subterfuge. It also played on the desire of readers to confuse author with character, a fallacy that permits fans of J. D. Salinger, for example, to believe that he really is Holden Caulfield. So it\'s fitting somehow that "J T Leroy" turned out to be a mirage.'b'In nonfiction, though, there\'s a different contract with the reader: you don\'t make stuff up. That\'s the cardinal rule James Frey broke when he embellished his criminal history in his memoir "A Million Little Pieces." (One example: three months in the joint, reporters found, was actually a few unchained hours in an Ohio police station.)'b"Now, Mr. Frey wants us to believe that the forms of fiction and nonfiction are so intertwined we can't distinguish between them."b'In an interview last week, Larry King asked Mr. Frey why he shopped "A Million Little Pieces" around as a novel, but published it as a memoir. Instead of answering directly, Mr. Frey asserted that his book was in the American literary tradition of Hemingway and Fitzgerald, Bukowski and Kerouac.'b'When Mr. King noted they all wrote fiction, Mr. Frey countered: "At the time of their books being published, the genre of memoir didn\'t exist." Forget St. Augustine and the intervening 16 centuries of autobiography.'b'In fact, Mr. Frey seems never to have read a memoir, or at least not one he found worthy of mention. "Memoirs don\'t generally come under the type of scrutiny that mine has," Mr. Frey whined during the interview.'b'But memoirs should always come under scrutiny: by their authors, as the books are being written.'b"I fell in love with memoir when I read Helen Keller's in fourth grade; had it turned out she was merely nearsighted, not deaf, blind and mute, my bubble might have popped."b"And now, writing my own memoirs, I know God is in the truth. Only by studying actual events and questioning your own motives will the complex inner truths ever emerge from the darkness. I tell aspiring memoirists, if you're the kind of person who can't apologize, who digs in, trusts only the first impulse, then this won't be your form. The convenient sound bites into which I store my sense of self are rarely accurate -- whose are? They have to be unpacked and pecked at -- warily, with unalloyed suspicion. You must testify and recant, type and delete."b'Call me outdated, but I want to stay hamstrung by objective truth, when the very notion has been eroding for at least a century. When Mary McCarthy wrote "Memoirs of a Catholic Girlhood" in 1957, she felt obliged to clarify how she recreated dialogue. In her preface, she wrote: "This record lays a claim to being historical -- that is, much of it can be checked. If there is more fiction in it than I know, I should like to be set right."'b'IN the decades since, objective truth (a phrase it\'s hard not to put quotes around) has lost power; subjective experience has gained authority. For many in my generation, Michael Herr\'s hallucinatory Vietnam memoir, "Dispatches," has become a truer record of the war than the "official" reports, which are clotted with fabricated body counts and the White House\'s lies.'b'As subjective experience has gained clout, memoirists have begun to employ novelistic devices to improve the genre\'s literary prospects, increasing their readership in the process. Since memory is informed by imagination, what we write is innately distorted, which undermines any memoir\'s "accuracy" in historical terms. (A paradox to me, since historians value diaries and letters as "first-hand" evidence.) Readers understand, of course, that no one lives with a Handycam strapped to her head for research purposes.'b'While writing my first memoir, "The Liars\' Club," I sought advice from autobiographers whose works gave me a reverence for the genre -- Mr. Herr, Frank Conroy, Maxine Hong Kingston. As a graduate student at Goddard College, I\'d heard Geoffrey Wolff read from "Duke of Deception," which he researched using a historian\'s tools: interviews taped with his mother and his conman father\'s jail and medical records. Still, he told me: "Documents are funny things. I\'m looking at a copy of my dad\'s r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9 right now. It says he holds degrees from the Sorbonne. It lists the head of the C.I.A. as a reference."'b'His brother Tobias\'s "This Boy\'s Life," drawn solely from recollection, was an act of memory, not history. But that in no way casts it in the same pit as Mr. Frey\'s fairy tale, where events were seemingly concocted with impunity.'b'Both brothers Wolff told me that the truth was elusive and hard won. Morally speaking, we memoirists occupy inherently muddy turf -- cashing in on the misery of our loved ones and exploiting those who trust us. "Take no care for your dignity," Toby wrote to me in a letter. Their example convinced me that truth in memoir was possible, even if it\'s imperfectly wrung from flawed introspection. And for some 15 years, I have clung like a marsupial to that idea -- well as I could.'b'So I rejected the strong suggestion of one publishing executive that I include a touching goodbye scene with my mother. "But I don\'t remember it, " I told him, and readers were left without what I\'m sure would have been a narratively comforting farewell. Sometimes to forget an event may be the most radiantly true way of representing it.'b"Mr. Frey seems to have started with his perceived truth, and then manufactured events to support his vision of himself as a criminal. But how could a memoirist even begin to unearth his life's truths with fake events? At one point, I wrote a goodbye scene to show how my hard-drinking, cowboy daddy had bailed out on me when I hit puberty."b'When I actually searched for the teenage reminiscences to prove this, the facts told a different story: my daddy had continued to pick me up on time and make me breakfast, to invite me on hunting and fishing trips. I was the one who said no. I left him for Mexico and California with a posse of drug dealers, and then for college.'b"This was far sadder than the cartoonish self-portrait I'd started out with. If I'd hung on to my assumptions, believing my drama came from obstacles I'd never had to overcome -- a portrait of myself as scrappy survivor of unearned cruelties -- I wouldn't have learned what really happened. Which is what I mean when I say God is in the truth."b'After the Frey scandal broke, I spent the day pacing my apartment like a prosecutor, cursing him. But on "Larry King Live" the other night, he looked so cudgeled that all my talked-up piety dissolved into pathos. Mr. Frey was being forced to do in the klieg lights what so many others have been schooled to do on the page. The pain in his expression would fill a book -- a true one, I hope.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Mary Karr, a professor of literature at Syracuse University, is the author of "The Liars\' Club," a memoir, and the forthcoming "Sinners Welcome."'b"JUST because Nascar and its fans are car enthusiasts, that doesn't mean the proposed Nascar track on Staten Island has to add to the island's traffic problem. In fact, if Nascar could help finance the revitalization of the oldNorth Shore line of the Staten Island Railway, the track's construction could improve area transportation."b"The line, which has a West Shore spur that runs through the heart of the track site in the Bloomfield section, ended passenger service in 1953 when buses were a viable -- and less expensive -- option to train service. The city owns the property, but hasn't worked toward reopening the line. Meanwhile, the West Shore spur, along with part of the Arlington Railyard, is being rehabilitated to once again accommodate freight service from the Howland Hook Marine Terminal and lug garbage out of the island's new rail waste-transfer station at Fresh Kills."b'With all this work going on, and with Nascar already heavily invested and desperate to get into New York City, islanders should demand that they get dividends. And those dividends should include a direct rail link to Manhattan.'b"If this sounds crazy, consider something crazier: the island is the only place in the tri-state region that doesn't have direct train links to Manhattan. Nascar's track could put an end to that."b"The North Shore line, with its connection to New Jersey via the Arthur Kill Lift Bridge, is the key. Reopen the line from the St. George Terminal, and you instantly give residents on the island's North Shore -- along with any fan who shows up at a race -- easy, quick and car-free access to the Staten Island Ferry. Then take things a step further: connect the lift bridge to Amtrak's Northeast Corridor line, and you're half-a-dozen stops from Penn Station without changing trains. Staten Islanders would then have their fastest commute to Midtown in history (along with a rail link to Newark Liberty Airport), and the Nascar track would have a connection to the nation's rail system and an international airport."b'Islanders could further benefit from more transportation investment: run a spur of the active South Shore line from the Pleasant Plains station along the West Shore Expressway (like the AirTrain to Kennedy International Airport along the Van Wyck Expressway) where it can hook up with the Nascar line near Fresh Kills. This would create a rail loop around Staten Island, giving the majority of islanders access to the train. Finally, lay about two miles of track through Fresh Kills Park to the Staten Island Mall, where you could end up with a centrally located park-and-ride terminal with the eight-lane Richmond Avenue feeding into it.'b'Commuters could then shop at the mall after work, pack their purchases in the trunk of their cars and drive home.'b"Who would oversee such an undertaking? Given the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's lack of interest in the island, this seems like the perfect job for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates Howland Hook as well as the island's three vehicular bridges to New Jersey, one of which -- the Goethals -- the Port Authority is bent on twinning or replacing. Islanders should insist that if a new bridge is built alongside the Goethals, the existing structure be used for passenger-only train service, thus alleviating any conflicts the passenger service would have with freight operations."b"But it would take a big business with a lot on the table to get the ball rolling. According to The Staten Island Advance, Nascar's new $4.48 billion television deal hinges on the island track. With that in mind, I would say that ball is in Staten Island's court."b'OP-ED Vince DiMiceli is the senior editor of "The Brooklyn Papers."'b"A few months ago, I staked out a spot on the packed dance floor at Irving Plaza to see a rare Manhattan performance by the British piano man Jamie Cullum. As a music journalist, I've cheerfully survived my share of sweaty mosh pits. So had my evening's companion, who is a feisty alumnus of a 1980's punk group. Yet neither of us was prepared for our evening-long tussle with a horde of rock 'n' roll barbarians. Their cudgels were cellphones."b'These boors stood with their phones held aloft during the show, intermittently bellowing the lyrics into it for the benefit of some unfortunate friend on the other end. The scourge included camera phones and larger digital cameras as well, scores of them. Their owners elbowed their neighbors, stomped toes and shoved. One disgruntled patron uttered a faint, "Yo! Not cool!" But no one really challenged these bullies, or even asked them to lower their offending arms.'b'Alas, it has become an accepted, if distracting fact of American life: every minute roaming, in network or in a seat at Madison Square Garden must be shared and even downloaded. These trophy-hunters clamor to net every vibrant blue note and pin it to the hard drive at home.'b'And so I\'ve watched, with dismay, the corruption of the live rock moment -- that sublime nonce when the sticky floor trembles, a splinter of drumstick streaks into the blue light and, as B. B. King once described it to me, "the little hairs on the back of your neck stand straight up." The thrill is indeed gone if you\'re scrolling speed dial contacts at the instant the lead guitarist reaches the bridge and leaps off into amazing fretwork. And it\'s darn tough for the digitally unconnected to stay "in the moment" with a host of blinking blue screens bobbing at eye level.'b'I first encountered the gang cellphone sing-along a few years back at a Bruce Springsteen concert at the Meadowlands. I realized this digital trend had gone country when a mother and her teenage daughter turned away from the very live Gretchen Wilson at a Las Vegas show when she asked for a "big hell yeah." Instead they bleated their joyous affirmation, via cellphone, to Granddaddy in Wichita, Kan. He hallooed back on high-volume speakerphone.'b"Musicians are stuck trying to figure out whether to beat 'em or join 'em. Security guards checking us into a Green Day show in Hartford tried, loudly and in vain, to ban or confiscate camera phones. Yet once the show started, lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong commanded people to turn on their cellphones for a blue-lighted update of the flicking Zippo lighters."b'In hindsight, I should have been hip to the band\'s conflicted policies before the show, when a giant screen alongside the stage flashed mash notes that fans had sent as text messages from their phones: "Scream if you think Billie Joe is hot!" As I fulminated, my 15-year-old son growled: "Duh, Mom. Their tour sponsor is Verizon."'b"I'm no endorsement na\xc3\xaff. Since Woodstock, concert venues have been mini-malls of merchandising. But at that Green Day venue, the T-shirt lines were 40 people deep throughout the show. Fans now seem willing to miss four or five live versions of their favorite songs to snag a souvenir."b"The concertgoers with their cellphones are just high-tech extensions of this desperate craze for mementos. As music consumers, we have become a tribe of craven souvenir takers. If file-sharing and digital piracy have turned the industry (and artists' rights) upside down, the age of the iPod, camera and video phones has devalued the beauty of the live moment."b"That night at Irving Plaza, Mr. Cullum came into occasional view when one of the barbarians bent down to type in a message and transmit. What little I saw was great. But when my view was again obscured, I started to long for the scabrous je ne sais quoi of the Sex Pistols' Sid Vicious, who would have distressed the offenders' artfully holey $200 jeans with the metal-tipped soles of his Doc Martens. Download this!"b"I'd be happy to ignore these digital louts if their antics and sheer numbers didn't step all over my rights to enjoy the performance. But more than that, I mourn the loss they don't seem to feel. A love of the live and unpredictable moment keeps 80-year-old B. B. King rocking in person about 200 nights a year; it still sends Bob Dylan to college cafeterias and gyms, and impels countless garage bands to crank it up. We should respect their impetuous art and not scheme to carry it off in a doggy bag."b'OP-ED Gerri Hirshey is the author, most recently, of "We Gotta Get Out of This Place: The True, Tough Story of Women in Rock."'b'Two weeks ago, a brief Russia-Ukraine squabble over natural gas pricing sent a tremor through Europe. One week ago, another tremor swept through the West -- this time America joined in the shakes -- when Iran broke open internationally monitored seals on its nuclear facilities, clearing the way for uranium enrichment activities that are a big step toward making a nuclear weapon.'b"These two events, in different ways, illustrate the dangers of relying as heavily as the West does on imported energy, much of it coming from chronically unstable countries. The United States, as the world's biggest and most profligate energy consumer, could do more than any other country to lessen this dangerous dependency, and in that way reduce the geopolitical leverage of capricious supplier nations."b"In Europe, all it took was Russia's cutting the flow of the natural gas it pipes through Ukraine, ostensibly in a dispute over pricing and transit fees, to shake world energy markets and leave Europeans reviewing their reliance on Russia for energy."b"Fast-forward one week, to last Tuesday, when Iranian officials, ignoring pleas and threats from Europe and America, broke the seals on its nuclear facilities. And why not? President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the clerics who run Iran know one thing that Western leaders also know but will not say: there is nothing the West can do because Iran has a bargaining chip -- petroleum -- that puts it out of reach. Iran is the second-largest oil producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, after Saudi Arabia, and is home to some 10 percent of the world's proven oil reserves. Iran also has the world's second-largest natural gas reserves, after Russia's."b'Iran has signed deals to provide natural gas to two emerging economic powers: China and India. India embarked last year on a gas pipeline project with Iran; in 2004, China signed a $70 billion oil and natural gas deal with Tehran. Those alliances are just a sign of things to come; as their economies grow, the Indians and the Chinese will become ever more hungry for energy resources.'b'That makes it much less likely that the United Nations Security Council, with China a permanent member, is ever going to agree to sanctions against Iran for pushing ahead with its nuclear program. But what if, by some miracle, America and Europe were able to persuade the Security Council to impose sanctions?'b"Well, slapping Iran with sanctions could very likely prompt Mr. Ahmadinejad and company to cut oil production in retaliation. Once upon a time, a drop in production from one OPEC member could be absorbed by the rest of the cartel. But today's global oil market is so tight, there is little spare capacity left. Any drop in production from a supplier can quickly send the price of oil soaring."b'"There\'s no shock absorber left," says Gal Luft, executive director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security. "That leaves us with zero options when it comes to leverage against these oil producers. Why do you think Hugo Ch\xc3\xa1vez is so emboldened? Why do you think Ahmadinejad is saying, \'Go ahead, make my day?\' "'b"Clearly, becoming less dependent on foreign sources should be among the West's -- and most especially America's -- most urgent priorities. But not in the way that President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney seem to prefer, which is to try to drill our way out of dependency -- an utterly impossible task for a country that uses one-fourth of the world's oil while possessing only 3 percent of its reserves, and whose once-abundant supplies of natural gas are now severely stressed. A much better answer would be a national commitment to more efficient vehicles and to the rapid deployment of new energy sources like biofuels."b"America cannot win President Bush's much-vaunted war on terrorism as long as it is sending billions of dollars abroad for oil purchases every day. It cannot establish democracy in the Middle East because governments rich in oil revenue do not want democracy. And it will never have the geopolitical leverage it needs as long as it is dependent on unstable foreign sources for fuel."b'Uniondale - THE Nassau County Legislature\'s power struggle over the choice of a new presiding officer brings to mind an old Woody Allen quote. Mr. Allen, paraphrasing the Bible, once said, "And the lion shall lie down with the lamb, but the lamb won\'t get much sleep."'b"In the case of the Republican minority lining up with dissident Democrats to make Roger Corbin the presiding officer, the question is which one, the Democratic lion or the Republican lamb, will get a good night's sleep?"b'In its more than 100-year history, Nassau County has never had a coalition government. For almost all of those years the Republicans controlled both the old board of supervisors and the current Legislature with an iron fist.'b'In the old days, the thought of sharing power with a Democrat would make any Republican leader wake up in the middle of the night in a cold sweat. Occasionally, the Democratic minority might get approval for some pet project, but those were rare occurrences.'b'In 1999, the Democratic Party was able to wrestle power away from the Republican-controlled Legislature. But it has been a rocky three terms for Nassau Democrats.'b'Unlike the Republicans who always voted in lockstep, the Democrats have had frequent bouts of anarchy. Some of the arguments have been over matters of principle. Other disputes were tests by individuals to see how much power they could wield.'b'In a 19-member Legislature where a switch of one vote can tip the balance of power, there is a temptation on the part of a small number of renegades to rock the boat. The Democrats have done exactly that.'b'The decision of the Republican minority to team up with Mr. Corbin is easy to understand. The one-vote margin that separates the Democrats from the Republicans can be erased in the next election, and a coalition government would give the Republicans a platform to do just that in 2007. Republican proposals that are able to see the light of day thanks to a Republican-supported presiding officer could embarrass the Democrats and County Executive Tom Suozzi, who has announced he will not seek re-election.'b"Two years of bad press for the Democrats and two years of good press for the rivals could sell the voters on the idea of giving control back to the Republicans. Aligning with the Democrats may be distasteful, but Republicans would gain something they don't have now -- hope."b"What's in it for Mr. Corbin? The chance to be the first African-American to head the Nassau County Legislature is most tempting. There are very few members of minority groups in positions of power on Long Island and none with any real clout. The position of presiding officer has prestige and a real budget."b"Appeals to party loyalty won't do much to sway Mr. Corbin from making history. Weeks of high-level publicity have made him that much more determined to go all the way to the presiding officer's chair. And with well-known African-American politicians like Representative Charles Rangel possibly backing Mr. Corbin, Mr. Suozzi is unlikely to discourage him."b"If the Republicans ultimately decide to get behind the Corbin candidacy, what are the chances that this unlikely marriage will last? Ask our neighbors in Suffolk County and they will tell you that their coalition marriages didn't work."b'Suffolk County legislators had a bipartisan government for seven years, with Democrats and Republicans sharing committee chairmanships and patronage. Most of those years were less than productive, and there was little or no bipartisan harmony.'b"In Nassau, the alignment of Mr. Corbin with the Republican legislative delegation, if it happens, speaks volumes about the lack of unity in the county's Democratic Party. It also shows that Nassau Republicans will set aside their pride if it means an eventual return to power."b'Op-Ed Contributor Jerry Kremer, a Democrat, is a former New York State assemblyman.'b'College Park, Md. - NASA has quietly terminated the Deep Space Climate Observatory, citing "competing priorities." The news media took little notice. Few Americans, after all, had even heard of the program. But the entire world may come to mourn its passing.'b'Earth is growing warmer. Even the most strident global-warming deniers have taken to saying that a little warming is a good thing. If the trend continues, however, it will have catastrophic consequences for life on this planet. Correctly identifying the cause could be the most important problem facing humanity.'b"Most scientists link global warming to unrestrained burning of fossil fuels, which shrouds Earth in a blanket of carbon dioxide, trapping the Sun's energy. Others, backed by industries that spew pollutants into the atmosphere, insist that greenhouse emissions are not the problem. They prefer to attribute warming to natural variations in solar output. Scientists are skeptical, but they don't deny the possibility. The issue cries out to be resolved."b'Even in a world wracked by wars, battles are not fought over scientific disagreements. In science, nature is the sole arbiter. Disputes are resolved only by better experiments.'b"The better experiment when it comes to global warming was to be the climate observatory, situated in space at the neutral-gravity point between the Sun and Earth. Called Lagrange 1, or L1, this point is about one million miles from Earth. At L1, with a view of the full disk of the Sun in one direction, and a full sunlit Earth in the opposite, the observatory could continuously monitor Earth's energy balance. It was given a poetic name, Triana, after Rodrigo de Triana, the sailor aboard Christopher Columbus's ship who first sighted the New World."b'Development began in November 1998 and it was ready for launching three years later. The cost was only about $100 million. For comparison, that is only one-thousandth the cost of the International Space Station, which serves no useful purpose.'b'Before Triana could be launched, however, there was a presidential election. Many of the industries favored by the new Bush White House were not anxious to have the cause of global warming pinned down. The launching was put on hold.'b'The disdain of the Bush White House for Triana goes much deeper than just a desire to avoid the truth about global warming. Triana began life in early 1998 as a brainchild of Al Gore, who was then the vice president. Mr. Gore, the story goes, woke up one morning wondering if it would be possible to beam a continuous image of the full Earth back from space to inspire people with the need to care for our planet. The 1972 portrait of the full Earth, taken from the Moon, had inspired millions with the fragile beauty of our blue planet. Why not beam the image live into classrooms, allowing students to view weather systems marching around the globe?'b'Scientists had dreamed of such an observatory for years. They hoped Mr. Gore\'s influence would make it happen. Mr. Gore\'s support would end up destroying it. Those who hated him, hated Triana. His dream of inspiring environmentalists and schoolchildren served only to trivialize the project. It was ridiculed as "Gore\'s screen saver."'b'Triana is terminated, but global warming is not. Someday, there will have to be an observatory at L1. Perhaps the most important lesson from our exploration of the solar system is that the most terrible place on Earth is a Garden of Eden compared to the best place anywhere else. We must find out how to keep it that way.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Robert L. Park, a professor of physics at the University of Maryland, is the author of "Voodoo Science: The Road From Foolishness to Fraud."'b'ONE of the most important articles The Times has published in recent months was the Dec. 19 article about Webcam child pornography and a teenager who had been a part of that world since he was 13.'b'Kurt Eichenwald, the reporter, last year persuaded Justin Berry, then 18, to stop using drugs, to get out of the business and to tell his story to The Times on the record. Aided by Mr. Eichenwald, Mr. Berry eventually became an informant in a federal investigation that has already led to arrests.'b'The unusual nature of the article made its preparation a balancing act between humanitarian and journalistic concerns. What proportion of what the paper did to influence events in Mr. Berry\'s life was to do humanitarian good, and what proportion was to get a good story? "It was a great confluence," said Lawrence Ingrassia, the business editor, who had direct responsibility for the project.'b'Diana Henriques, a trusted colleague Mr. Eichenwald consulted frequently, suggested in an e-mail to me that "perhaps the most difficult issue" he faced was his role in Mr. Berry\'s rehabilitation. "For Kurt, Justin\'s hero-worship meant that he had to make doubly, triply sure he didn\'t sugarcoat Justin\'s past behavior out of protectiveness or partiality; didn\'t unfairly castigate law enforcement officers who were suspicious of Justin; didn\'t give Justin more credit than he deserved for assisting prosecutors, etc."'b'Bill Keller, the executive editor, expressed pride in the article. "The question is," he said in an e-mail, "did Kurt\'s intervention color the journalism. I can\'t see that it did in any significant way, except in the sense that it provided a dramatic conclusion to his story."'b"The Times made a vital contribution to reader understanding of the balancing process with a candid first-person essay by Mr. Eichenwald that explained how the main 6,000-word article had been reported and edited. The explanation spelled out how he had gone about winning Mr. Berry's confidence and persuading him to become an on-the-record source."b"For example, Mr. Eichenwald acknowledged that although The Times's standard practice calls for reporters to identify themselves at the outset, he had allowed Mr. Berry to assume from their initial online exchanges that he had a music career. But Mr. Eichenwald said he complied with the paper's ethical guidelines by identifying himself as a Times reporter when they first met in person on June 30 and he began gathering information from Mr. Berry for the article."b'When Mr. Berry offered to allow The Times to use his name in its article, Mr. Eichenwald noted, the paper delayed accepting the offer until "we were certain that Justin was competent to make the decision." And he laid out his role in lining up a doctor, a lawyer, counseling and a new place to live for Mr. Berry.'b'I\'ve long held the traditional notion that readers deserve reporting done by journalists who have maintained a detachment that allows them to view sources dispassionately -- and minimizes any sense of obligation on the part of sources. The forthright explanation of The Times\'s embrace of Mr. Berry intrigued me enough to take a closer look. But my concerns were alleviated in extensive interviews and e-mail exchanges with Mr. Eichenwald and Times editors. I found that special care and consultation had gone into the balancing process that occurred throughout the reporting and editing of the article. The result: an article prepared ethically "in the broadest possible sense," to use Mr. Ingrassia\'s words.'b'Mr. Eichenwald seems to have been quite sensitive to the detachment issue. "I was fully aware of the fact that my circumstances gave me far too much influence over him, which I could easily have abused," he wrote in an e-mail. Even if Mr. Berry had been inclined to embellish his revelations out of a sense of obligation, the cross-checking made possible by all the digital documentation he provided would have helped Mr. Eichenwald to detect it.'b'Editors were also sensitive. On Nov. 1, at the suggestion of Jill Abramson, a managing editor, Mr. Ingrassia met with the source and the reporter in New York. "Larry underscored," Mr. Eichenwald recalled, "that I was a newspaper reporter, that my job was to look at the facts and present them dispassionately and that I was not his advocate nor was I available to give him advice."'b'The most telling evidence, for me, of the care The Times took with Mr. Berry was the assurance given him that he could withdraw his permission to use his name at any time -- even though it could weaken the article. At one point after he offered to go on the record, Mr. Berry asked what would happen if he changed his mind, Mr. Eichenwald recalled.'b'"I told him that  because he was a victim of child sexual abuse, things were slightly different: Basically, if he said he would go on the record, and then had a change of heart and withdrew that decision, that we as a paper could not ethically bind him to his original decision.  That meant, I told him, that unlike most sources, he did have the power to reverse himself at any time."'b'After The Times decided, by mid-October, that Mr. Berry was competent to make the decision, his offer to be a named source was accepted, according to Mr. Eichenwald. Among other things, Mr. Eichenwald told me, "I believed that repeatedly assuring him that he had the power to back out would help him maintain the confidence in me that he needed to see the story into print."'b'A test of The Times\'s assurance came on Sunday, Dec. 18, the day before the article was to appear. When Mr. Eichenwald checked in that afternoon with Mr. Berry, who knew the article was coming, he found out that his source was having chest and stomach pains. "I felt ethically obliged to again review his decision with him," he said. After checking with a New York editor to make sure there was still time to deal with a crisis, he called Mr. Berry back.'b'"By this point, he was lying in bed," Mr. Eichenwald recalled. "I again walked through the issues, and asked him again if he was certain he wanted to be on the record. Repeatedly, he said yes." A few hours later, the story was in print.'b'Despite the close working relationship between reporter and source, The Times did not go out of its way to portray Mr. Berry favorably. While the article did note that he had returned to his church in Bakersfield, Calif., and put biblical teachings on his Web site during a period when he was 18 and 19, editors decided not to report how he used money left over from his years in the pornography business to help the homeless, according to Mr. Eichenwald.'b'"Justin purchased several tons of clothing [and] oranges and rented a truck," the reporter recounted in an e-mail to me. "He then began heading into homeless areas around Los Angeles every night, where he delivered clothing and oranges to the homeless."'b"Readers were well served by the special care that the reporters and editors at a newspaper with The Times's resources could devote to balancing the humanitarian and journalistic values involved in producing this sensitive and poignant article."b'I rise to defend Joe Biden, who is being attacked for his verbosity during the Alito confirmation hearings. Some have concluded that Biden is a blowhard, though I assert he is thoughtful, just at Wagnerian length.'b"After years of study, I have come to recognize that it is wrong to regard Biden's committee room interventions as questions. They are senatorial arias of immense emotional range. At times he will ascend to heights of rage and contempt; at other times he will wander like Lear through the desolation of undesirable policies."b'At one moment, he will lean in toward the witness like a late-night drinking buddy and share some intimate truth. At the next moment -- and this is when he is at his best -- he will play the beaten warrior, battered but unbowed. In this twilight mood, his voice grows husky and his shoulders slump. He knows that some nominee or bill is about to roll over him, but like the last Spartan at Thermopylae, he registers his noble objection before succumbing manfully to the inexorable will of fate.'b'Then he flashes his jarring grin, which says that we are all friends despite the circumstances of our disagreement.'b"Biden's emotive vitality is his greatest weapon in the war all successful politicians must wage, the war against the public self. As the great Meg Greenfield once observed, prominent Washingtonians have two identities: their genuine self -- the soft, complicated person they once were -- and the public self, the broadly drawn pastiche of positions, poses, party affiliations, life-story clich\xc3\xa9s and ethnic ties that are presented to voters every few years."b'The challenge of political life is to prevent the genuine self from being extinguished by the public image.'b'There is no environment more perilous for that genuine self than the United States Senate. Consider how senators live every day. They are surrounded by clouds of deferential, ear-whispering aides whose own attitudes towards their bosses are a mixture of fervent love and Oedipal contempt. They are buffeted by swarms of reporters who are obsequious in person and then condescending in print.'b'They are puffed by endless praise and bruised by endless criticism. They begin their day before dawn, with every minute scheduled by their worker bee helpers. They go to offices with power walls adorned with plaques, prizes, football helmets and other offerings that have been left to them in the way ritual sacrifices were once left on the altar of a tribal god or chieftain.'b'Wide-eyed home state folks click their pictures with disposable cameras. Lobbyists stop by with their superior suits and their beneficent causes. At midmorning the senator will be driven to a think tank to address an audience of wonks who know his subject a hundred times better than he does. Then he will drop by a committee hearing where photographers will take pictures of him listening portentously. Then he will be whisked to the floor to make a statement, pausing only to share flattery with an esteemed colleague.'b"It's no wonder some senators turn into bloated Hindenburg versions of themselves. It's no wonder that some members enter the Senate dining room as if accompanied by the blare of trumpets. It's no wonder some suffer from logorrhea dementia, the malady of being driven insane by the act of talking too much."b'But despite occasional appearances, Joe Biden is not this way. It is true the man has no speed bumps between his brain and his mouth. But this only makes him more candid. And by making candor the core of his self-image, he has preserved the ability to think independently and to be honest with himself. Some public figures are no longer able to create their own beliefs, and just believe those talking points it is useful for them to believe. But Biden, sometimes sarcastic, sometimes profane, always overlong, is still a real person, and a genuinely nice one -- and he has been in the Senate since age 30, almost his whole adult life.'b'The Senate is filled with bright, charismatic, ambitious people who somehow became caught in the waiting room to greatness. But it is my favorite Washington institution because of personalities so electric they have resisted the pressure to become marbleized. There is the kind and decent Lugar, the joyful warrior McCain, the unprepossessing Graham, the courageous Lieberman and the graceful Sununu and Obama, among others.'b"Biden is one of those people who make the Senate interesting and even serious. He wouldn't have the same facility for talking honestly if he didn't give himself so much marathon-length practice."b"Baltimore - OFFICIAL celebrations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday turn 20 years old this week."b"Like that of Dr. King's late colleague Rosa Parks, the name behind our 10th national holiday carries more resonance than impact -- noble, universal, yet bounded by race and time. The annual King event draws tributes to the end of legal segregation, reprises of landmark oratory and varied appraisals of problems for minorities. Yet despite our high-stakes national commitment to advance free government around the world, we consistently marginalize or ignore Dr. King's commitment to the core values of democracy."b'His own words present a vast and urgent landscape for freedom. "No American is without responsibility," Dr. King declared only hours after the 1965 "Bloody Sunday" repulse of voting rights marchers in Selma, Ala. "All are involved in the sorrow that rises from Selma to contaminate every crevice of our national life," he added. "The struggle in Selma is for the survival of democracy everywhere in our land."'b'His public appeal gathered an overnight host from many states behind a blockaded vigil. When white supremacists beat one volunteer to death with impunity, Dr. King responded with prophetic witness against the grain of violence. "Out of the wombs of a frail world," he assured mourners, "new systems of equality and justice are being born."'b'Selma released waves of political energy from the human nucleus of freedom. Ordinary citizens ventured across cultural barriers, aroused a transnational conscience and engaged all three branches of government. After the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965, Dr. King claimed that the distinctive methods of sharecroppers and students had revived nothing less than the visionary heritage of the American Revolution. "The stirring lesson of this age is that mass nonviolent direct action is not a peculiar device for Negro agitation," he told the Synagogue Council of America. "Rather it is a historically validated method for defending freedom and democracy, and for enlarging these values for the benefit of the whole society."'b"This effusive axiom went unnoticed, but the blessings of freedom did ripple far beyond the black victims of caste. As Dr. King predicted, the civil rights movement liberated segregationists themselves. The integrity of law enforcement rose with a stark decline in racial terror. The Atlanta Braves joined the first professional sports teams to spring up at integrated stadiums, and business radiated Sun Belt growth into a region of historic poverty. In elections, new black voters generated the 20th century's first two-party competition to displace the ossified regimes of white supremacy. The stigma of segregation no longer curtailed a Southerner's chances for high national office, and fresh candidates rose swiftly to leadership in both national parties."b'Parallel tides opened doors for the first female students at some universities and most private colleges, then the military academies. In 1972, civil rights agitation over doctrines of equal souls produced the first public ordination of a female rabbi in the United States, and the Episcopal Church soon introduced female clergy members in spite of schismatic revolts to preserve religious authority for men. Pauli Murray, a lawyer who was one of the pioneer priests, had pursued a legal appeal that in 1966 overturned several state laws flatly prohibiting jury service by women. "The principle announced seems so obvious today," Dr. Murray would write in a memoir, "that it is difficult to remember the dramatic break the court was making."'b'Overseas, as an amalgam of forces suddenly dissolved the Soviet empire atop its mountain of nuclear weapons, Dr. King\'s message echoed in the strains of "We Shall Overcome" heard along the Berlin Wall and the streets of Prague. Likewise, South African apartheid melted without the long-dreaded racial Armageddon, on miraculous healing words from a former prisoner, Nelson Mandela. Students shocked the world from Tiananmen Square with nonviolent demonstrations modeled on American sit-ins, planting seeds of democracy within the authoritarian shell of Chinese Communism.'b"These and other sweeping trends from the civil rights era have transformed daily life in many countries, and now their benefit is scarcely contested. Yet the political discourse behind them is atrophied. Public service has fallen into sad disrepute. Spitballs pass for debate. Comedians write the best-selling books on civics. Dr. King's ideas are not so much rebutted as cordoned off or begrudged, and for two generations his voice of anguished hope has given way to a dominant slogan that government itself is bad."b'Above all, no one speaks for nonviolence. Indeed, the most powerful discipline from the freedom movement was the first to be ridiculed across the political spectrum. "A hundred political commentators have interred nonviolence into a premature grave," Dr. King complained after Selma. The concept seemed alien and unmanly. It came to embarrass many civil rights veterans themselves, even though nonviolence lies at the heart of democracy.'b'Every ballot -- the most basic element of free government -- is by definition a piece of nonviolence, symbolizing hard-won or hopeful consent to raise politics above anarchy and war. The boldest principles of democratic character undergird the civil rights movement\'s nonviolent training. James Madison, arguing to ratify the Constitution in 1788, summoned "every votary of freedom to rest all our political experiments on the capacity of mankind for self-government," and he added that no form of government can secure liberty "without virtue in the people."'b'By steeling themselves to endure blows without retaliation, and remaining steadfastly open to civil contact with their oppressors, civil rights demonstrators offered shining examples of the revolutionary balance that launched the American system: self-government and public trust. All the rest is careful adjustment.'b'Like Madison, the marchers from Selma turned rulers and subjects into fellow citizens. A largely invisible people offered leadership in the role of modern founders. For an incandescent decade, from 1955 to 1965, the heirs of slavery lifted the whole world toward freedom.'b'Weariness and war intruded. In the White House, President Lyndon Johnson wrestled the political subtleties of sending soldiers to guarantee liberty at home. "Troops leave a bitter taste in the mouths of all the people," cautioned Defense Secretary Robert McNamara. The president moaned simultaneously over predictions of bloody stalemate if he sent troops to Vietnam, saying the prospect "makes the chills run up my back," but he succumbed to schoolyard politics. The American people, he feared, "will forgive you for everything except being weak."'b'Lamenting religious leaders who accommodated the war, Dr. King defended nonviolence on two fronts. "Have they forgotten that my ministry is in obedience to the one who loved his enemies so fully that he died for them?" he asked. "What then can I say to the Vietcong, or to Castro, or to Mao? Can I threaten them with death or must I not share with them my life?" In politics, Dr. King endorsed a strategic alternative to violence. "We will stop communism by letting the world know that democracy is a better government than any other government," he told his congregation, "and by making justice areality for all of God\'s children."'b"Pressures intensified within Dr. King's own movement. To battered young colleagues who wondered why nonviolence was consigned mostly to black people, while others admired James Bond, he could only commend the burden as a redemptive sacrifice. Change was slow, however, for a land still dotted with lynching, and frustration turned to rebellion as the war in Vietnam hardened the political climate. When offered incendiary but fleeting fame in 1966, the leaders of various black power movements repudiated nonviolence along with the vote itself, which they had given so much to win."b'Meanwhile, Lyndon Johnson steadily lost his presidency at home before he could forge any political order in Vietnam. Although casualty figures confirmed the heavy advantage of American arms, Johnson fell victim to a historical paradox evolving since the age of Napoleon: modern warfare destroys more but governs less -- one reason military commanders seem, in my limited experience, more skeptical than civilians about the political use of lethal force.'b'Dr. King grew ever more lonely in conviction about the gateway to constructive politics. "I\'m committed to nonviolence absolutely," he wrote. "I\'m just not going to kill anybody, whether it\'s in Vietnam or here." When bristling discouragement invaded his own staff, he exhorted them to rise above fear and hatred alike. "We must not be intimidated by those who are laughing at nonviolence now," he told them on his last birthday.'b'His oratory fused the political promise of equal votes with the spiritual doctrine of equal souls. He planted one foot in American heritage, the other in scripture, and both in nonviolence. "I say to you that our goal is freedom," he said in his last Sunday sermon. "And I believe we\'re going to get there because, however much she strays from it, the goal of America is freedom."'b'Only hours before his death, Dr. King startled an aide with a balmy aside from his unpopular movement to uplift the poor. "In our next campaign," he remarked, "we have to institutionalize nonviolence and take it international."'b"The nation would do well to incorporate this goal into our mission abroad, reinforcing the place of nonviolence among the fundamentals of democracy, along with equal citizenship, self-government and accountable public trust. We could also restore Dr. King's role in the continuing story of freedom to its rightful prominence, emphasizing that the best way to safeguard democracy is to practice it. And we must recognize that the accepted tradeoff between freedom and security is misguided, because our values are the essence of our strength. If dungeons, brute force and arbitrary rule were the keys to real power, Saudi Arabia would be a model for the future instead of the past."b"Gunfire took Dr. King's life, but we determine his legacy. This holiday, let that inspiration remain our patriotic challenge."b'Op-Ed Contributor Taylor Branch is the author, most recently, of "At Canaan\'s Edge," the third volume of his biography of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'b"It took a scandal on the scale of the Jack Abramoff case, but House Speaker Dennis Hastert is scrambling aboard the Lobby Reform Express. Laboring to clean Republicans' skirts for the November elections, Mr. Hastert has outflanked most Democratic critics by broaching the possibility of a ban on privately financed Congressional junkets."b'This proposal -- a true shocker by the shabby mores of Washington -- would dry up one of the more noxious sumps in the lobbyist-incumbent complex. Special interests have spent $18 million to run more than 6,000 trips by more than 600 lawmakers from both parties in the last five years.'b"Mr. Hastert senses he must do something credible to mop up the Abramoff mess and its connections to the fallen majority leader, Tom DeLay, who demanded years of financial tribute from the K Street lobbying industry. It's far from certain that Mr. Hastert can sell lobby reform. But his panicky New Year conversion is a good start toward galvanizing support on both sides of the aisle. Other needed reforms include these:"b"A far more detailed disclosure of lobbyists' expenditures and business contacts on Capitol Hill and in the growth business of spending big in lawmakers' home districts. This sunlight approach must include timely electronic disclosure accessible to the general public."b'A ban on lobbyists\' gifts to lawmakers, including an end to such thinly disguised shakedowns as donations to incumbents\' personal foundations and charities. The garish special-interest "salutes" at political conventions, check-writing binges benefiting ranking incumbents, should also be ended.'b"A tightening of the rules by which lawmakers and their aides cross over to platinum careers as lobbyists. Since 1998, half of the 36 retired senators and two-fifths of the 162 House alumni have registered to lobby. They should be stripped of insiders' access to the House floor, gym and restaurants. They should wait two years, not one, before lobbying, and disclose any job-seeking while in office."b"A ban on lobbyists' soliciting and bundling big-check donations to lawmakers from business clients. Dozens of lawmakers now blithely use lobbyists as their fund-raising treasurers."b'Creation of a truly independent office within Congress with the power and personnel to monitor lobbying practices and investigate abuses by lawmaker or lobbyist.'b'Of course, thousands of lobbyists undoubtedly are ready to lobby against an end to business as usual. But what a perfect moment for this tarred and anxious Congress to reform its culture.'b'It\'s widely expected that President Bush will talk a lot about health care in his State of the Union address. He probably won\'t boast about his prescription drug plan, whose debut has been a Katrina-like saga of confusion and incompetence. But he probably will tout proposals for so-called "consumer driven" health care.'b"So it's important to realize that the administration's idea of health care reform is to take what's wrong with our system and make it worse. Consider the harrowing series of articles The New York Times printed last week about the rising tide of diabetes."b"Diabetes is a horrifying disease. It's also an important factor in soaring medical costs. The likely future impact of the disease on those costs terrifies health economists. And the problem of dealing with diabetes is a clear illustration of the real issues in health care."b"Here's what we should be doing: since the rise in diabetes is closely linked to the rise in obesity, we should be getting Americans to lose weight and exercise more. We should also support disease management: people with diabetes have a much better quality of life and place much less burden on society if they can be induced to monitor their blood sugar carefully and control their diet."b'But it turns out that the U.S. system of paying for health care doesn\'t let medical professionals do the right thing. There\'s hardly any money for prevention, partly because of the influence of food-industry lobbyists. And even disease management gets severely shortchanged. As the Times series pointed out, insurance companies "will often refuse to pay $150 for a diabetic to see a podiatrist, who can help prevent foot ailments associated with the disease. Nearly all of them, though, cover amputations, which typically cost more than $30,000."'b"As a result, diabetes management isn't a paying proposition. Centers that train diabetics to manage the disease have been medical successes but financial failures."b"The point is that we can't deal with the diabetes epidemic in part because insurance companies don't pay for preventive medicine or disease management, focusing only on acute illness and extreme remedies. Which brings us to the Bush administration's notion of health care reform."b'The administration\'s principles for reform were laid out in the 2004 Economic Report of the President. The first and most important of these principles is "to encourage contracts" -- that is, insurance policies -- "that focus on large expenditures that are truly the result of unforeseen circumstances," as opposed to small or predictable costs.'b"The report didn't give any specifics about what this principle might mean in practice. So let me help out by supplying a real example: the administration is saying that we need to make sure that insurance companies pay only for things like $30,000 amputations, that they don't pay for $150 visits to podiatrists that might have averted the need for amputation."b'To encourage insurance companies not to pay for podiatrists, the administration has turned to its favorite tool: tax breaks. The 2003 Medicare bill, although mainly concerned with prescription drugs, also allowed people who buy high-deductible health insurance policies -- policies that cover only extreme expenses -- to deposit money, tax-free, into health savings accounts that can be used to pay medical bills. Since then the administration has floated proposals to make the tax breaks bigger and wider, and these proposals may resurface in the State of the Union.'b"Critics of health savings accounts have mostly focused on two features of the accounts Mr. Bush won't mention. First, such accounts mainly benefit people with high incomes. Second, they encourage wealthy corporate employees to opt out of company health plans, further undermining the already fraying system of employment-based health insurance."b'But the case of diabetes and other evidence suggest that a third problem with health savings accounts may be even more important: in practice, people who are forced to pay for medical care out of pocket don\'t have the ability to make good decisions about what care to purchase. "Consumer driven" is a nice slogan, but it turns out that buying health care isn\'t at all like buying clothing.'b"The bottom line is that what the Bush administration calls reform is actually the opposite. Driven by an ideology at odds with reality, the administration wants to accentuate, not fix, what's wrong with America's health care system."b'Immigration is a national problem that too many local governments have mistakenly tried to fix. Take Manassas, Va., where the City Council has finally suspended what was clearly an unconstitutional housing ordinance aimed at immigrants, mainly Hispanics. The Council wanted to make it illegal to have too many extra aunts, uncles and cousins in a single residence, although the word was out that Anglo cousins did not have to worry.'b'Or, there was the New Hampshire sheriff who tried accusing illegal immigrants of trespassing on United States territory -- a claim that had no standing in court but made him a hero in the angry, anti-immigrant crowd. And one Connecticut community nearly banned volleyball because it was the sport of choice for some South American workers.'b"Mostly these punitive measures have failed, but it is easy to see why home-grown proposals are expanding. The immigration system in this country is broken, and Washington has failed to solve the nation's border crisis in a humane and practical way. So localities suffer the chaos and try to end it."b"At this point, only the House has acted, passing a bill so draconian it sounds like something out of the Know-Nothing anti-Irish movement of 150 years ago. Co-sponsored by Representatives James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin and Peter King of New York, both Republicans, it's full of extreme measures -- like 700 miles of fences on the Mexican border. But the worst part of the bill makes it a felony to shield or offer support to undocumented immigrants, even unknowingly. So what about the church group that provides shelter, no questions asked, or the woman who drives a neighbor to the store?"b'After an outcry from groups that help the needy, Mr. King said he hopes to amend the bill. A better hope would be that it dies quietly and that the Senate finds a more reasonable way to untangle the immigration mess so local governments can stop trying to solve a national problem town by town.'b'Jack Abramoff bragged that he could smell money -- a lot of it coming from Indian tribes that were bringing in about $19 billion a year in casinos across the country. Some tribal leaders were like winners of the mega-lottery -- they were looking for people to protect their money, to give them professional guidance. Instead, like too many lottery winners, the tribal leaders were tricked and ridiculed.'b'Mr. Abramoff and his sidekick Michael Scanlon not only bilked Indian tribes of up to $66 million; they also mocked them as "monkeys" and "morons." Now, tribal leaders are consoling themselves with the idea that they weren\'t the only ones fooled by the K Street scam artists. There are a lot of Republicans, big-name Republicans, who are also realizing that all that friendly assistance from the Abramoff crowd was tainted with trouble.'b'But for the American Indian community, the administration and the Congress, the Abramoff scandal raises deeper issues than one bad lobbyist and his mistreatment of his Indian clients. As this page has argued many times, the casino business eventually consumes not only those who play, but those who deal the cards. And while Indian leaders point to more jobs and new homes and better health care as a result of casino profits, it is clear that some tribal leaders are slipping into the worst habits of casino operators elsewhere. As tribes try to protect their wealth, limit competitors and manipulate Congress for their own purposes, they become like any other high-roller working the K Street corridor.'b'The Coushatta tribe in Louisiana paid more than $30 million to Mr. Abramoff and his associates to protect its Lake Charles casino, and its $300 million in yearly revenue, from competition across the border in Texas. Mr. Abramoff seems to have helped stop the casinos in Texas, even though one of his other clients was the Tigua Indian tribe, which paid him more than $4 million to do just the opposite.'b'The decisions by tribal leaders to pay out so much money that belonged to the tribes bear closer scrutiny. The Coushattas have thrown out all tribal council members who took part in the Abramoff deal. But because tribes consider themselves sovereign nations, there are almost no outside controls over how they collect and spend their money. Some tribes have used it for the right things -- schools, hospitals, even to buy lands to protect the environment. But outsiders are not privy to the details.'b"A Harvard study last year concluded that over a 10-year period, the income for tribes with casinos increased 36 percent while income for others increased 21 percent. Still, only about half of the tribes have some gambling revenue, and many of the larger tribes out West or in the Dakotas have almost no income from gambling or, for that matter, much of anything else. Their desperate poverty brings the average per capita income among American Indians to the appalling figure of less than $8,000 a year. It is unfortunate that the tribes, the Congress or the government can't find a way to share some of the casino wealth with these isolated and poor tribes. Better them than the likes of Jack Abramoff."b'Prime Minister Hun Sen has hardly run Cambodia as a democracy. But now he seems intent on extinguishing what liberty remains. Seth Mydans reported in The International Herald Tribune recently that Mr. Hun Sen is waging political war against human rights groups and political opponents, largely through misuse of defamation laws.'b'Three prominent human rights activists have been arrested in recent weeks, joining two others facing similar charges. And several other opponents of the government have fled the country, among them the leader of the only significant opposition party. This is clearly a man working to keep his nation under the weight of dictatorship.'b"Unfortunately, in Cambodia, as in a growing number of other countries, whatever Western leverage was left after the 1970's is being eroded by the economic rise of China. Beijing has become the biggest investor in Cambodia, and doesn't give a hoot about human rights. Western donors are reluctant to put new conditions on aid to one of the poorest and most battered countries in the world."b"But there are still things they can do. They must make it clear to Mr. Hun Sen that they don't believe in the legal cover he has thrown over his ambition, and that they firmly oppose his campaign to curtail democracy. Western governments must make sure that the proposed United Nations human rights monitoring council does not reproduce the flaws of the current, discredited Human Rights Commission by deferring to countries that violate rights."b'Washington supports the idea of the new council, but its envoy, John Bolton, proposed including the five permanent members of the Security Council as permanent members of the rights council. That plays into the hands of China, which would gain a secure perch from which to neutralize any U.N. action against allies like Cambodia.'b'BOZEMAN, Mont. - THE grizzly bears of Yellowstone Park are a national treasure, owned by nobody, preserved in trust for everybody, like the gold reserves of Fort Knox, the memory of Louis Armstrong and the clear air over western Nebraska on a breezy spring day. For 31 years, those bears have been listed as "threatened," and therefore protected from hunting and certain other tribulations under the Endangered Species Act. But recently the Interior Department has proposed removing them from the list, and this year, after a period for public comment that ends on Feb. 15, Interior Secretary Gale Norton will make a decision. That decision, though political, will in some degree be informed by science. The scientific question is, How safe are Yellowstone\'s grizzlies from extinction? The political question is, How safe do Americans want them to be?'b"The good news from Yellowstone comes in comparing two approximate numbers: roughly 200 bears in 1975, roughly 600 bears today. But to understand what those numbers mean, and what they don't mean, you need a few other facts."b"The grizzlies of Yellowstone Park are part of a bear population in a larger area, known as the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, which encompasses also Grand Teton National Park, parts of six national forests and some other lands under public and private ownership. That ecosystem, so far as bears are concerned, is an island. It's surrounded by landscape inhospitable to grizzly bears: farms, ranches, fences, Interstate highways, golf courses, trophy houses, malls, railroad lines and towns like the one where I live."b"Grizzlies from elsewhere do not immigrate to this ecological island. The Yellowstone bears are isolated, marooned, and have been for many years. It's nice to know that, under those circumstances, because of concerted management and conservation efforts by some good, hard-working people, the population has increased threefold, from very small to smallish. But it's also important to remember that insularity itself carries heightened risk. Why? Because any smallish, isolated population is especially vulnerable to bad luck -- like a failure of its food sources, an epidemic disease or a coincidence of both."b"Concrete examples of such bad luck come easily to mind. The wolves of Yellowstone -- to consider another controversial species, reintroduced to the park in 1995 -- have been experiencing drastically high pup mortality this last year, possibly because of a lethal virus. Of 69 wolf pups born in 2005, only 22 have survived: bad luck for the Yellowstone wolves, which until recently seemed to be thriving. Meanwhile, the white bark pines of Yellowstone are dying from a combination of fungal infection and bark-burrowing beetles. That's bad luck for Yellowstone's grizzlies, for whom pine nuts are a crucial food in autumn."b"Now imagine the Yellowstone grizzlies in a year when a bear-killing virus arrives, the pine nuts are gone, and the cutthroat trout (another major food source, hurt by competition with lake trout, a non-native transplant) don't spawn. The population could quickly drop back to 200. Such fluctuations are common among wild animal populations. The difference with insular populations is that because they lack any supply of immigrants, they are more likely to fluctuate all the way to zero."b"And then there's genetics. As the number of bears in the Yellowstone population fell to its low point of 200 in the early 1970's, collective genetic diversity fell too. The degree of loss can only be estimated, but the estimates raise concern. The important points to understand here are that small (and smallish) populations inexorably lose genetic diversity with each passing generation, through a random process called genetic drift, and that when sheer population size rebounds, genetic diversity does not rebound with it."b"Genetic impoverishment becomes worse, not better, with each generation when a small population remains small. Inbreeding adds to the consequences of such impoverishment. And we can assume that the 600 Yellowstone grizzlies are now roughly as inbred as if they'd descended from 200 cousins, second cousins and cousins once or twice removed, left to mate together on a desert island 30 years ago."b'The Interior Department has recognized this genetic concern and suggested dealing with it by periodically importing a female bear from elsewhere. That might help, or it might not, but the very suggestion reminds us that Yellowstone\'s grizzly population is constrained, marginal, genetically depauperate and threatened (yes, "threatened" is the right word) by various combinations of possible and inevitable trouble. And I haven\'t even mentioned the loss of bear habitat within the ecosystem because of timber cutting and oil and gas extraction on public lands and development on private lands.'b'Some people have argued that it\'s important in principle to de-list the Yellowstone grizzly, in order to show that the Endangered Species Act can yield success stories. That\'s like arguing that we must claim success in our wars, early and often, in order to preserve faith in America\'s military. So long as Yellowstone is an island, growing smaller every year, we shouldn\'t delude ourselves that its grizzlies have "recovered" in any but the most tenuous and misleading numerical sense. Real recovery will come, if ever, only when we radically revise our vision of how humans and grizzly bears might share far bigger areas of North American landscape.'b'Op-Ed Contributor David Quammen is the author, most recently, of "Monster of God: The Man-Eating Predator in the Jungles of History and the Mind."'b"In times of extreme fear, American leaders have sometimes scrapped civil liberties in the name of civil protection. It's only later that the country can see that the choice was a false one and that citizens' rights were sacrificed to carry out extreme measures that were at best useless and at worst counterproductive. There are enough examples of this in American history -- the Alien and Sedition Acts and the World War II internment camps both come to mind -- that the lesson should be woven into the nation's fabric. But it's hard to think of a more graphic example than President Bush's secret program of spying on Americans."b'The White House has offered steadily weaker arguments to defend the decision to eavesdrop on Americans\' telephone calls and e-mail without getting warrants. One argument is that the spying produced unique and highly valuable information. Vice President Dick Cheney, who never shrinks from trying to prey on Americans\' deepest fears, said that the spying had saved "thousands of lives" and could have thwarted the 9/11 attacks had it existed then.'b"Given the lack of good, hard examples, that argument sounded dubious from the start. A chilling article in yesterday's Times confirmed our fears."b"According to the article, the eavesdropping swept up vast quantities of Americans' private communications without any reasonable belief that they could be related to terrorism. The National Security Agency flooded the Federal Bureau of Investigation with thousands of names, e-mail addresses, telephone numbers and other tips that virtually all led to dead ends or to innocent Americans."b'About the only result the administration has been able to dredge up on behalf of the spying program is the claim that the information it gained helped disrupt two plots: one to destroy the Brooklyn Bridge and one to detonate fertilizer bombs in London. But officials in Washington and Britain disputed the connection. And that plot to cut down the Brooklyn Bridge with a blowtorch has been trotted out so many times that it would be comical if the issue were not so serious.'b'This was not just a tragic waste of the F.B.I.\'s resources in dangerous times. It was an outrageous and pointless intrusion into individuals\' privacy. Anyone who read the original reports on the spying operation and thought, "Well, so what, I have nothing to hide," should think about the uncounted innocent Americans who had F.B.I. officers knocking on their doors because of secret and possibly illegal surveillance. The National Security Agency was originally barred from domestic surveillance without court supervision to avoid just this sort of abuse.'b'The first lawsuits challenging the legality of the domestic spying operation were filed this week, and Congress plans hearings. We hope that lawmakers are more diligent about reining in Mr. Bush now than they have been about his other abuses of power in the name of fighting terrorism.'b"By the time of his death in 1968, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had played a pivotal role in a movement for social justice that has since transformed the United States and caused him to be spoken of in the same breath as figures like Thomas Jefferson and Gandhi. The country lost Dr. King to an assassin's bullet. But we will lose him a second time unless his heirs find a way to rejuvenate the listless and down-at-the-heels King Center in Atlanta, which was set up to commemorate Dr. King's legacy while serving as a repository for his papers as well as for other crucial holdings related to civil rights."b'Historians have been sounding the alarm for years about the deterioration of the papers, which are housed in a complex that lacks modern preservation services and requires far more upkeep than the King family has thus far been able to provide. The family, which is clearly unable to preserve the King papers for future generations, would do the country an enormous service by not selling them off to private collectors. Instead, the family should ramp up its conservation efforts in collaboration with the National Archives, the Library of Congress or one of the universities that have expressed interest.'b"The King Center itself is also badly in need of physical care and repair. The board, controlled by Dr. King's younger son, Dexter, recently announced that it was considering the sale of the King Center property to the National Park Service. But two of the King siblings have recently spoken out against the proposal. The park service, which says it has not been approached about a potential sale, would surely be able to care for the center, while expanding it into a legitimate civil rights memorial worthy of the name."b'The next move belongs to the family. It can preserve an extraordinary legacy by yielding control -- or it can hold on tight and fritter that legacy away.'b'For years, opponents of capital punishment hopeful about the new tool of DNA testing focused on the 1992 execution of Roger Coleman, a convicted rapist and murderer who warned society as he was strapped into Virginia\'s electric chair: "An innocent man is going to be murdered tonight." A long struggle to apply modern DNA testing to evidence unexpectedly preserved in the Coleman case ended last week with the news that crime-scene DNA had confirmed the verdict that said Mr. Coleman raped and murdered his sister-in-law in 1981.'b'A watershed moment was instantly proclaimed by proponents of capital punishment, as if the case were the ultimate proof of the universality of justice. Rather, it was still another proof of the growing reliability of DNA testing, which has cleared more than 170 wrongly convicted people since 1989.'b'In fact, the Coleman outcome is further evidence that the authorities should embrace DNA testing as a continuing tool of justice, whatever the outcome, as Gov. Mark Warner did before he left office in Virginia. Far too often, state officials wary of soft-on-crime demagoguery fight DNA testing during postconviction court challenges and tolerate the premature destruction of evidence in slipshod forensic procedures that undermine criminal justice.'b"The reassuring value of DNA was demonstrated not only by the Coleman finding, but also by a largely unnoticed case a few days later in neighboring Washington. Detectives used Virginia's pioneering DNA archive to bring charges against the deacon of a storefront church for a rape and murder that had been unsolved for 22 years. Unpaid interns checking old cases in a police warehouse found usable DNA in a cardboard box; a match was found by way of the deacon's 30-year-old robbery conviction in Virginia, where forensic databases are better preserved than in many other states."b"Sadly, this was far from routine detective work. Washington -- called the nation's murder capital -- has no up-to-date crime lab for the sophisticated testing of DNA. It must rely on F.B.I. specialists and, in this case, unpaid volunteers studying cold-case files. Many other jurisdictions are similarly hobbled. Yet DNA's value as a double-edged sword becomes ever clearer in confirming innocence or guilt, providing political leaders dare to allow its full application."b'ARLINGTON, Va. - IT should come as no surprise that an arch-conservative Web site is questioning whether Representative John Murtha, the Pennsylvania Democrat who has been critical of the war in Iraq, deserved the combat awards he received in Vietnam.'b'After all, in recent years extremist Republican operatives have inverted a longstanding principle: that our combat veterans be accorded a place of honor in political circles. This trend began with the ugly insinuations leveled at Senator John McCain during the 2000 Republican primaries and continued with the slurs against Senators Max Cleland and John Kerry, and now Mr. Murtha.'b"Military people past and present have good reason to wonder if the current administration truly values their service beyond its immediate effect on its battlefield of choice. The casting of suspicion and doubt about the actions of veterans who have run against President Bush or opposed his policies has been a constant theme of his career. This pattern of denigrating the service of those with whom they disagree risks cheapening the public's appreciation of what it means to serve, and in the long term may hurt the Republicans themselves."b'Not unlike the Clinton "triangulation" strategy, the approach has been to attack an opponent\'s greatest perceived strength in order to diminish his overall credibility. To no one\'s surprise, surrogates carry out the attacks, leaving President Bush and other Republican leaders to benefit from the results while publicly distancing themselves from the actual remarks.'b"During the 2000 primary season, John McCain's life-defining experiences as a prisoner of war in Vietnam were diminished through whispers that he was too scarred by those years to handle the emotional burdens of the presidency. The wide admiration that Senator Max Cleland gained from building a career despite losing three limbs in Vietnam brought on the smug non sequitur from critics that he had been injured in an accident and not by enemy fire. John Kerry's voluntary combat duty was systematically diminished by the well-financed Swift Boat Veterans for Truth in a highly successful effort to insulate a president who avoided having to go to war."b"And now comes Jack Murtha. The administration tried a number of times to derail the congressman's criticism of the Iraq war, including a largely ineffective effort to get senior military officials to publicly rebuke him (Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, was the only one to do the administration's bidding there)."b'Now the Cybercast News Service, a supposedly independent organization with deep ties to the Republican Party, has dusted off the Swift Boat Veterans playbook, questioning whether Mr. Murtha deserved his two Purple Hearts. The article also implied that Mr. Murtha did not deserve the Bronze Star he received, and that the combat-distinguishing "V" on it was questionable. It then called on Mr. Murtha to open up his military records.'b'Cybercast News Service is run by David Thibault, who formerly worked as the senior producer for "Rising Tide," the televised weekly news magazine produced by the Republican National Committee. One of the authors of the Murtha article was Marc Morano, a long-time writer and producer for Rush Limbaugh.'b'The accusations against Mr. Murtha were very old news, principally coming from defeated political rivals. Aligned against their charges are an official letter from Marine Corps Headquarters written nearly 40 years ago affirming Mr. Murtha\'s eligibility for his Purple Hearts -- "you are entitled to the Purple Heart and a Gold Star in lieu of a second Purple Heart for wounds received in action" -- and the strict tradition of the Marine Corps regarding awards. While in other services lower-level commanders have frequently had authority to issue prestigious awards, in the Marines Mr. Murtha\'s Vietnam Bronze Star would have required the approval of four different awards boards.'b'The Bush administration\'s failure to support those who have served goes beyond the smearing of these political opponents. One of the most regrettable examples comes, oddly enough, from modern-day Vietnam. The government-run War Remnants Museum, a popular tourist site in downtown Ho Chi Minh City, includes an extensive section on "American atrocities." The largest display is devoted to Bob Kerrey, a former United States senator and governor of Nebraska, recipient of the Medal of Honor and member of the 9/11 commission.'b'In the display, Mr. Kerrey is flatly labeled a war criminal by the Vietnamese government, and the accompanying text gives a thoroughly propagandized version of an incident that resulted in civilian deaths during his time in Vietnam. This display has been up for more than two years. One finds it hard to imagine another example in which a foreign government has been allowed to so characterize the service of a distinguished American with no hint of a diplomatic protest.'b'The political tactic of playing up the soldiers on the battlefield while tearing down the reputations of veterans who oppose them could eventually cost the Republicans dearly. It may be one reason that a preponderance of the Iraq war veterans who thus far have decided to run for office are doing so as Democrats.'b'A young American now serving in Iraq might rightly wonder whether his or her service will be deliberately misconstrued 20 years from now, in the next rendition of politically motivated spinmeisters who never had the courage to step forward and put their own lives on the line.'b'Rudyard Kipling summed up this syndrome quite neatly more than a century ago, writing about the frequent hypocrisy directed at the British soldiers of his day:'b"An' it's Tommy this, an' Tommy"b"that, an' anything you please;  An' Tommy ain't a bloomin' fool --"b'you bet that Tommy sees!'b'Op-Ed Contributor James Webb, a secretary of the Navy in the Reagan administration, was a Marine platoon and company commander in Vietnam.'b"The Democrats were throwing haymakers at the White House this week, but they will never succeed as long as they're perceived as the party in skirts."b"Al Gore, John Kerry and Hillary Clinton called the Bush administration on its apparently bottomless store of imperial sins. They made a lot of good points. They just didn't score any."b"This trio, apparently jockeying for '08, are not the best messengers. They're loaded down with baggage."b"Two of them, who could have stopped W. and Dick Cheney before they undid 230 years of American democracy, didn't, because they allowed themselves to be painted as girlie men. The other, a manly girl, has been so cautious and opportunistic about weighing in on everything from Schiavo to Alito and Iraq that when she finally sang out on Monday and railed against W., she sounded more soprano than basso profundo."b'It was easy for the Republicans to play their usual gender games and dismiss the three Democrats as whiny, shrill and ineffectual.'b'After Mr. Gore and Senator Clinton went on the attack, Scott McClellan rebutted: "I think we know one tends to like or enjoy grabbing headlines. The other one -- sounds like that the political season may be starting early." He rubbed Mr. Gore\'s nose in the fact that he is not the president fighting the terrorists, noting: "If he wants to be the voice for Democrats on this debate over national security, we welcome it."'b"To lead, and not just conduct campaigns that parrot the liberal elite's editorial pages, you have to shape your own identity and political destiny. And ever since the 2000 race, the Democrats have let Republicans caricature them as effeminate. The Democrats have let the G.O.P. give them their shape, and it's an hourglass."b"There are moments in campaigns and policy debates when it's possible to knock the sword out of your opponent's hand. Al Gore and John Kerry whiffed. Mr. Kerry and Senator Clinton held the president's coat as he rushed to war."b'This all allowed the Bushies to use 9/11 as a shield and a bludgeon. They made their own rules and cast themselves as renegade heroes.'b'If the Democrats are like the dithering "Desperate Housewives," the Republicans have come across like the counterterrorism agent Jack Bauer on "24": fast with a gun, loose with the law, willing to torture in the name of protecting the nation. Except Jack Bauer is competent.'b"The Democrats' chronic impotence led to the Republicans' reign of incompetence."b'U.S. News &amp; World Report features a menacing Dick Cheney -- looking like a man who just swallowed a country -- on the cover this week, with the headline "Tough Guy."'b'The story recounts how Mr. Cheney, as Bush I\'s defense secretary, derided lawmakers as "a bunch of annoying gnats." Maybe that\'s why he doesn\'t feel the need to pay attention to those silly little laws they make.'b'How many things do you have to mess up in the country and the world before you lose your reputation for machismo?'b'Al Gore, belatedly perhaps, made an uncharacteristically bold move. He made the completely valid point that "the president of the United States has been breaking the law, repeatedly and insistently."'b'"To eavesdrop on American citizens without a warrant, imprison American citizens on his own declaration, kidnap and torture, then what can\'t he do?" he told an audience on Monday, denouncing Bush\'s power grab. He warned Republicans that they should be wary of setting these extralegal precedents because someday a leader with values abhorrent to them could put all that power to use.'b"Mr. Cheney, lumbering around in unreality, continues to be unapologetic as the chorus of Democratic complaints gets louder. Above the law is exactly where he wants to be. Even when he can easily -- and retroactively -- get snooping warrants, he doesn't want their stinking warrants. Warrants are for sissies."b'"When we get all through 10 years from now," he told U.S. News, "we\'ll look back on this period of time and see that liberating 50 million people in Afghanistan and Iraq really did represent a major, fundamental shift, obviously, in U.S. policy in terms of how we dealt with the emerging terrorist threat -- and that we\'ll also have fundamentally changed circumstances in that part of the world."'b"Yeah. But not necessarily for the better. Whatever else you can say about the Bush crowd, they stick to their guns, even when they can't shoot straight."b'With a decent economy at his back, Gov. George Pataki outlined a $110.7 billion state budget that promised a little cheer for almost everybody, much of it in the form of proposed tax cuts. But the governor needs to acknowledge the large shadow hanging over his final year in office. That shadow involves the court order telling the state to pay a lot more money for schools in New York City and other high-need areas -- $5.6 billion more a year for the city alone. That makes the $2 billion surplus that Mr. Pataki was boasting about look less like a bonus and more like a down payment.'b'There were, of course, other proposals that bear watching as well. Mr. Pataki wants to stop Medicaid fraud by creating "one of the biggest and most aggressive Medicaid fraud-fighting units in America," which would actually be a new independent inspector general. That sounds like a good start after an overlong delay in tackling this serious problem. Additional budget reform and a constitutional amendment to cap borrowing sound promising in general, but their details deserve scrutiny.'b'And even though he proposed tax cuts for the elderly, businesses, married people and the estates of the wealthy, the governor wants to re-establish the sales tax on clothes, the most regressive levy on the books. Albany has frequently promised to get rid of that tax, but Mr. Pataki has essentially given up, offering instead two tax-free weeks a year to buy clothing under $250.'b'On the education front, the governor proposed 150 new charter schools, added to the 100 that now exist. Charter schools can be a real boon, but they need to be closely monitored for quality -- something that could be a challenge if so many were added at once. Mr. Pataki also listed a number of smaller grants and scholarship programs and proposed a tax credit of $500 per child that could be used for tutoring or for alternative schooling. Opponents called it a "microvoucher" system; judging from early reactions, it probably has a micro chance of passing.'b'In his budget speech, the governor rightly acknowledged that education financing must be done in the right way, "by targeting those districts that have the greatest need." The real question is whether Mr. Pataki and his Republican colleagues in the State Senate are willing to cede enough money to do the job.'b"Buckeye, Ariz. - Head west from downtown Phoenix past acres of postwar sprawl, go up over the White Tank Mountains, and there spread out before you is the future. There before you is a barren desert floor. Right now it's nothing but scrub, tire tracks and desert washes, but this land has been bought by developers, and groundbreaking is just around the corner. By 2025, a million people will be living in this now-empty space."b"When you are out here, you can feel America's growth. Between now and 2025, the population of the United States will increase by 70 million. That's the populations of California, New York and Florida put together."b"To accommodate these people, 100 billion square feet of new residential space will have to be constructed. According to a Brookings Institution study by Arthur C. Nelson, half of the buildings in which Americans will live, play and work in the year 2030 don't even exist yet. We are in the middle of a $25 trillion building boom that is changing the face of the country, and most of it is happening in desert places like this one."b"It's true that cities have experienced a resurgence in the past 10 years, but the real action is still out here on the fringe. All the population growth of all the major U.S. cities in this decade still doesn't equal the growth of just two suburban California counties: San Bernardino and Riverside. The flow of people moving into cities is but a trickle compared with the torrent moving out to exurbia."b"When you study this torrent, you realize it is actually several torrents running in the same direction. It's active seniors looking for communities tailored to their needs. It's young singles looking for town houses (there are more single-person households in suburbia now than two-parent families). It's rich people looking for country clubs and poor people looking for affordable housing. Most of all, it's immigrants who are skipping gateway cities and buying homes twice as quickly as earlier immigrant groups."b'Up until now, explosive growth and increasing market segmentation have led to sprawling decentralization. In pursuit of their own private havens, people have been spreading out and unwittingly creating the centerless landscapes of strip malls and tract homes that have been the subject of a million anti-sprawl lamentations.'b"But that's not what is being built and planned here outside Phoenix, and that's not the emerging pattern nationwide. The story of American development is the story of a contest between privacy and community, and the tide is turning. Communal impulses are rising up to counter privatizing, decentralizing trends."b"Suburbia's critics tend to treat home buyers as bovine pawns of evil developers. But home buyers led this change. In the 1980's, exurbanites wanted golf courses in prestigious new communities. But by the mid-1990's, they wanted Starbucks, Kinko's and walking trails -- community spaces to combat isolation."b'The first wave of far-flung exurbanites overshot the mark, and found they were missing civic bonds. So creative builders are responding to the new market pressures.'b'When you look at the new influential master-planned communities -- Verrado here in Arizona, or Stapleton near Denver or Ladera Ranch in California -- you see that the old tract homes and enclosed-mall version of suburbia are gone. These new developments combine New Urbanist ideas -- like mixed-use downtown neighborhoods with lofts over shops -- with the traditional car- and backyard-friendly neighborhoods that people move to the suburbs to get.'b'These communities, and the ones planned here west of Phoenix, tend to offer traditional cul-de-sac residential areas around amenity-rich villages -- pedestrian-friendly streetscapes with shops, restaurants, schools, community centers, theaters and town squares.'b'These communities play with diversity. Some mix day care centers and senior centers. Stapleton has $120,000 homes on the same block as $1 million homes. Market Common in Virginia has an urban grid with a suburban sense of safety and enclosure.'b'This is what Joel Kotkin calls the New Suburbanism. These new suburban villages, he says, will combine with revived older suburban villages, like Naperville, Ill., and Fullerton, Calif., to create an "archipelago of villages" -- a new sort of landscape that is neither city nor sprawl.'b"It's all kind of amazing: market-tested cohesive institutions to counteract the segmenting and niche-ifying forces of the age. It's not anti-suburbia; it's go-go suburbia growing up."b"Congressional leaders of both parties are staging a fire sale on promises to clean up the lobbying and influence-peddling abuses rampant on Capitol Hill. Many are long overdue, notably a ban on the gratis meals and gifts and junkets that have made Jack Abramoff and Tom DeLay symbols of Washington's easy-money subculture."b'But an egregious loophole already gapes in the first wave of promised crackdowns: the very gifts and golf and beach adventures to be banned under lobbying reform would still be permitted under the separate campaign finance law. Yes, so long as boondoggles, whether on distant slopes or at nearby watering holes, are formally characterized as campaign events and include a handover of campaign checks, they exempt lobbyists from restrictions.'b"Senator John McCain, one of the Capitol's credible reformers, is promising to attack the campaign law loophole, which is such a lucre-rich flaw that major lobbying firms felt obliged to point it out to The Washington Post. Mr. McCain is recruiting any and all who crave the light under the reform banner. But he must be bemused that his vocal new partner in the G.O.P.'s frantic cleanup effort is Senator Rick Santorum. Until now, Mr. Santorum has been a key liaison for the Republicans' K Street project, in which lobbyists' campaign-financing clout was blatantly courted with red-carpet access to lawmakers."b"Still missing from the reform agenda is an independent office to watch for abuses by lawmakers or lobbyists. Lawmakers must also confront one of their gaudiest magnets for influence peddling: spending bills engorged with pork projects choreographed by lobbyists. The dozens of lobbyists enlisted by lawmakers to run their campaign financing drives are also a disgrace, as is the proliferation of lawmakers' relatives as registered lobbyists."b'The momentum for reform is fed by the embarrassing case of Mr. Abramoff, who has copped a plea and promised inside revelations. This week, the White House had to confirm that Mr. Abramoff did have a "few staff-level meetings." But it should not take scandal to drive home the need for reform. Just consider this: John Ashcroft recently became one of the nation\'s few former attorneys general who stooped to hanging out his insider\'s shingle for market-price consultations on homeland security, justice and more.'b"Jon Corzine wanted to become New Jersey's governor so much that he nudged aside a popular incumbent, gave up his seat in the United States Senate and spent $38 million campaigning for the job. It will all be justified if he is able to muscle through the changes needed to pull New Jersey out of its current political and fiscal funk. His inaugural address on Tuesday struck most of the right themes, but it gave no clue as to whether Governor Corzine has the will and the ability to make the hard choices he has been ducking up to now."b"For all practical purposes, the state is broke. While many states are posting budget surpluses for the year, New Jersey has a shortfall of nearly $6 billion. Mr. Corzine's success as a chief executive on Wall Street notwithstanding, that is a lot of gap to close. His inaugural address covered some of the hardest tasks ahead: reforming a corrupt political culture, restoring public trust in government and producing honestly balanced budgets without the gimmickry of recent years."b'No one expected Mr. Corzine to come up with controversial specifics on his inauguration day, and he certainly mentioned "tough choices." But a speech that promises better transportation, fully financed state pensions, school construction, health care for children and affordable housing without mentioning any new source of revenue except a general promise to make the state economy grow isn\'t exactly a harbinger of steely resolve. He called for a constitutional convention to reform the current tax system, which has given New Jersey the highest property taxes in the nation. But in the current fiscal mess, it\'s irresponsible to promise an increase in property tax rebates.'b"Mr. Corzine has endorsed the idea of an elected state comptroller to help keep government honest, and that would be a good start toward dismantling corruption. But he could have promised in his speech to cut off the political bosses and power brokers -- including those who helped elect him -- who have yet to meet a self-serving deal they couldn't love. His inaugural address could have been a declaration of independence, and that would have brought voters to their feet."b"The election on Sunday of Michelle Bachelet as Chile's president completes a three-continent long jump for women in politics. Ms. Bachelet is the first woman elected president in Latin America who is not the widow of a political strongman. On Monday, when Ellen Johnson Sirleaf was inaugurated as president of Liberia, she became Africa's first woman to be elected president. And with Angela Merkel's election as chancellor of Germany, a woman now leads Western Europe's most populous nation."b"Ms. Bachelet, a socialist, an agnostic and a single mother, won the presidency of Chile, Latin America's most socially conservative country, with the help of a compelling personal story. She is the daughter of an air force general who died in prison during Gen. Augusto Pinochet's rule after months of torture, and she herself was imprisoned and tortured. When she was named defense minister in the current government, she was put in charge of a military still very much shaped by Mr. Pinochet. She brought an unpretentious style to the post, and won a reputation for toughness without rancor."b'These new chief executives are not the first women to lead major democracies. Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Indira Gandhi of India were vastly powerful politicians and global ideological icons as well. Golda Meir was the inspirational leader of Israel, a nation surrounded by hostile Arab neighbors that refused to concede its right to exist.'b"But the women's successes in Liberia, Chile and Germany are being celebrated in part because this kind of achievement is still rare. In most countries, women have yet to achieve the critical mass at the lower levels of government that will be necessary if their ascension is to be seen as part of the normal course of politics."b'The recent elections are important because they stand in stark contrast with the other route women have taken to power: picking up the standard of a murdered father or husband. Most of those dynastic women have brought few qualifications to the job and have been dreadful leaders. Mrs. Gandhi was an exception. She won office as the daughter of the independence leader Jawaharlal Nehru, but transcended her status as a dynastic successor as a powerful -- sometimes too powerful -- leader.'b'The women who are now leading nations are the most independent and accomplished group of female leaders ever collected -- with the possible exception of when Elizabeth I dined alone.'b"CONGRESSIONAL Republicans are suddenly taking a strong interest in lobbying reform. Speaker Dennis Hastert and the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, are rallying behind a reform package that will include measures like increasing disclosure and doubling the length of time after leaving Congress before lawmakers and staff can lobby their colleagues. These are commendable and desirable reforms. But to get to the root of what ails Washington's political culture, a more basic change is necessary."b'The two of us have been immersed in Washington politics for more than 36 years. We have never seen the culture so sick or the legislative process so dysfunctional. The plea deals of Jack Abramoff and Michael Scanlon, the indictment of Tom Delay and his resignation as House majority leader, and the demise of Representative Randy Cunningham notwithstanding, this is not simply a problem of a rogue lobbyist or a pack of them. Nor is it a matter of a handful of disconnected, corrupt lawmakers taking favors in return for official actions.'b'The problem starts not with lobbyists but inside Congress. Over the past five years, the rules and norms that govern Congressional deliberation, debate and voting -- what legislative aficionados call "the regular order" -- have routinely been violated, especially in the House of Representatives, and in ways that mark a dramatic break from custom.'b"Roll call votes on the House floor, which are supposed to take 15 minutes, are frequently stretched to one, two or three hours. Rules forbidding any amendments to bills on the floor have proliferated, stifling dissent and quashing legitimate debate. Omnibus bills, sometimes thousands of pages long, are brought to the floor with no notice, let alone the 72 hours the rules require. Conference committees exclude minority members and cut deals in private, sometimes even adding major provisions after the conference has closed. Majority leaders still pressure members who object to the chicanery to vote yea in the legislation's one up-or-down vote."b"To be sure, bills have been passed under this regime, on party-line votes with slender majorities. But the results have not always been true to party objectives or conservative ideals. Democrats aren't the only ones undermined by a process whose methods, like the cynical use of earmarks for pet projects, serve to bloat government bureaucracies."b"Some of the abuses are straightforward breaches of the rules. The majority Republicans bypass normal procedures and ignore objections that parliamentary rules have been violated. They then reframe substantive issues as procedural matters that demand party discipline. Other abuses do not violate the rules, but they do transgress longstanding practice. For example, House rules don't set a maximum period of 15 minutes for most roll call votes. But since the advent of electronic voting in 1973, 15 minutes has been the norm."b'In 1987, when the majority Democrats once -- and only once -- stretched a budget vote to 30 minutes because they found themselves unexpectedly down by one vote when time was supposed to expire, the minority Republicans loudly protested, with their whip, Dick Cheney, saying it was the worst abuse of power he had ever seen in Congress. Now it is routine to bring up a bill and troll for enough votes to pass it, even when a clear majority of the House -- 218 members -- has voted nay.'b'What has all this got to do with corruption? If you can play fast and loose with the rules of the game in lawmaking, it becomes easier to consider playing fast and loose with everything else, including relations with lobbyists, acceptance of favors, the use of official resources and the discharge of governmental power.'b"We saw similar abuses leading to similar patterns of corruption during the Democrats' majority reign. But they were neither as widespread nor as audacious as those we have seen in the past few years. The arrogance of power that was evident in Democratic lawmakers like Jack Brooks of Texas -- the 21-term Democrat who was famed for twisting the rules to get pork for his district -- is now evident in a much wider range of members and leaders, who all seem to share the attitude that because they are in charge, no one can hold them accountable."b'Indeed, Mr. Hastert showed open contempt for the House ethics process last year when he fired the Republican chairman of the ethics committee and ousted two Republican members after they did their duty and reprimanded Tom DeLay for three violations of standards. Mr. Hastert then appointed two members to the committee who had given large sums to the DeLay legal defense fund -- when the main matter pending before the committee involved Representative DeLay.'b'The same attitude produced the K Street Project, in which the new Republican majority, led by Mr. DeLay, used its governmental power to demand that trade associations and lobbying groups fire Democratic lobbyists and hire designated Republicans, who could then be expected to show their gratitude by contributing generously to party candidates and committees. Jack Abramoff was one of the progenitors of that initiative.'b'What can be done? First, Mr. Hastert; Representative David Dreier, the Rules Committee chairman; and the new House majority leader should declare that there will be a return to the regular order and to a reasonable deliberative process. And they must be prepared to follow through on that declaration.'b'But there are also rules reforms that would help. Two- or three-hour votes should become a thing of the past. Any major bill should be presented at least three days before it is considered, unless a supermajority votes to waive that rule. Votes should be required on objections to excessive earmarking in bills, and members should be required to declare that they have no personal interest in the earmarks they promote. Real debate and reasonable amendments must be allowed on most bills, and the integrity of conference committees needs to be reestablished. Finally, if there is to be real and credible ethics oversight, that process, too, must be overhauled.'b'Quick and decisive Congressional actions could minimize the damage done by the explosion of scandals related to Mr. Abramoff. But lobbying reform alone is a temporary solution. The real solution is for Congress to behave like the deliberative body it is supposed to be.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Norman Ornstein is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. Thomas E. Mann is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. They are co-authors of the forthcoming "The Broken Branch."'b'The Supreme Court smacked former Attorney General John Ashcroft and the Bush administration when it ruled 6 to 3 that the Justice Department had gone beyond its authority in trying to undermine an assisted-suicide law in Oregon. The only disquieting note was that the new chief justice, John Roberts Jr., who had assured senators that he believed people had "the right to be let alone," nevertheless joined the dissenters in arguing that the federal government had the power to block Oregon\'s pioneering effort to let terminally ill patients end their own lives humanely.'b"The decision was notable because it rejected Mr. Ashcroft's attempt to impose his religiously conservative ideology on a state whose voters had decided differently. Oregon's law allowing physician-assisted suicide was approved narrowly in 1994 and reaffirmed by a thumping 60 to 40 percent vote three years later. Congressional conservatives, including Mr. Ashcroft when he was a senator, failed to push through a federal law to overturn it."b'So when Mr. Ashcroft became attorney general in 2001, he simply declared that the federal Controlled Substances Act gave him the authority to prevent doctors from prescribing lethal drugs for the purpose of suicide. That position had been rejected by the Clinton administration, and Mr. Ashcroft issued his own directive without consulting Oregon or apparently anyone else outside his own department. His successor, Alberto Gonzales, embraced this power grab.'b'The Supreme Court concluded that Mr. Ashcroft had overreached when he ruled that physician-assisted suicide was not a "legitimate medical purpose" that would allow doctors to prescribe lethal drugs under the Controlled Substances Act. That act was intended to thwart drug abuse and trafficking, not to punish doctors who prescribed medicines in accord with state law. The majority found that Congress had not intended to pre-empt the state regulation of medical practice or to give a single executive branch officer the power to define standards of medical practice.'b"Congressional conservatives are already vowing to push through a law barring assisted suicide. After the sorry display of pandering during the Terri Schiavo tragedy, no one can bet that they won't succeed this time. But our own sense is that Oregon has acted with exquisite care by requiring that two doctors agree that a patient is likely to die within six months, and is well informed and acting voluntarily, before lethal drugs can be prescribed. Congress would be wise not to meddle in a sensitive issue that Oregon has clearly studied far more closely."b'Charlottesville, Va. - IN the past several years, American evangelicals, and I am one of them, have amassed greater political power than at any time in our history. But at what cost to our witness and the integrity of our message?'b"Recently, I took a few days to reread the war sermons delivered by influential evangelical ministers during the lead up to the Iraq war. That period, from the fall of 2002 through the spring of 2003, is not one I will remember fondly. Many of the most respected voices in American evangelical circles blessed the president's war plans, even when doing so required them to recast Christian doctrine."b'Charles Stanley, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Atlanta, whose weekly sermons are seen by millions of television viewers, led the charge with particular fervor. "We should offer to serve the war effort in any way possible," said Mr. Stanley, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention. "God battles with people who oppose him, who fight against him and his followers." In an article carried by the convention\'s Baptist Press news service, a missionary wrote that "American foreign policy and military might have opened an opportunity for the Gospel in the land of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob."'b'As if working from a slate of evangelical talking points, both Franklin Graham, the evangelist and son of Billy Graham, and Marvin Olasky, the editor of the conservative World magazine and a former advisor to President Bush on faith-based policy, echoed these sentiments, claiming that the American invasion of Iraq would create exciting new prospects for proselytizing Muslims. Tim LaHaye, the co-author of the hugely popular "Left Behind" series, spoke of Iraq as "a focal point of end-time events," whose special role in the earth\'s final days will become clear after invasion, conquest and reconstruction. For his part, Jerry Falwell boasted that "God is pro-war" in the title of an essay he wrote in 2004.'b'The war sermons rallied the evangelical congregations behind the invasion of Iraq. An astonishing 87 percent of all white evangelical Christians in the United States supported the president\'s decision in April 2003. Recent polls indicate that 68 percent of white evangelicals continue to support the war. But what surprised me, looking at these sermons nearly three years later, was how little attention they paid to actual Christian moral doctrine. Some tried to square the American invasion with Christian "just war" theory, but such efforts could never quite reckon with the criterion that force must only be used as a last resort. As a result, many ministers dismissed the theory as no longer relevant.'b"Some preachers tried to link Saddam Hussein with wicked King Nebuchadnezzar of Biblical fame, but these arguments depended on esoteric interpretations of the Old Testament book of II Kings and could not easily be reduced to the kinds of catchy phrases that are projected onto video screens in vast evangelical churches. The single common theme among the war sermons appeared to be this: our president is a real brother in Christ, and because he has discerned that God's will is for our nation to be at war against Iraq, we shall gloriously comply."b'Such sentiments are a far cry from those expressed in the Lausanne Covenant of 1974. More than 2,300 evangelical leaders from 150 countries signed that statement, the most significant milestone in the movement\'s history. Convened by Billy Graham and led by John Stott, the revered Anglican evangelical priest and writer, the signatories affirmed the global character of the church of Jesus Christ and the belief that "the church is the community of God\'s people rather than an institution, and must not be identified with any particular culture, social or political system, or human ideology."'b'On this page, David Brooks correctly noted that if evangelicals elected a pope, it would most likely be Mr. Stott, who is the author of more than 40 books on evangelical theology and Christian devotion. Unlike the Pope John Paul II, who said that invading Iraq would violate Catholic moral teaching and threaten "the fate of humanity," or even Pope Benedict XVI, who has said there were "not sufficient reasons to unleash a war against Iraq," Mr. Stott did not speak publicly on the war. But in a recent interview, he shared with me his abiding concerns.'b'"Privately, in the days preceding the invasion, I had hoped that no action would be taken without United Nations authorization," he told me. "I believed then and now that the American and British governments erred in proceeding without United Nations approval." Reverend Stott referred me to "War and Rumors of War, " a chapter from his 1999 book, "New Issues Facing Christians Today," as the best account of his position. In that essay he wrote that the Christian community\'s primary mission must be "to hunger for righteousness, to pursue peace, to forbear revenge, to love enemies, in other words, to be marked by the cross."'b'What will it take for evangelicals in the United States to recognize our mistaken loyalty? We have increasingly isolated ourselves from the shared faith of the global Church, and there is no denying that our Faustian bargain for access and power has undermined the credibility of our moral and evangelistic witness in the world. The Hebrew prophets might call us to repentance, but repentance is a tough demand for a people utterly convinced of their righteousness.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Charles Marsh, a professor of religion at the University of Virginia, is the author of "The Beloved Community: How Faith Shapes Social Justice, from the Civil Rights Movement to Today."'b"The plight of Viktor Yushchenko in Ukraine reminds us of other politicians in the post-Soviet world who raised large expectations in the West only to disappoint in the end. Perhaps it's time to take a more realistic look at what's going on in the former Soviet Union."b"At the time of Ukraine's so-called Orange Revolution in 2004, many in the West saw largely what they wanted to see: a people rising up against corruption, manipulated politics and crude Russian pressures in the name of moving closer to democracy, free markets and the West. Mr. Yushchenko, survivor of a dastardly murder attempt, and his running mate, Yulia Tymoshenko, were the stars. Vladimir Putin of Russia was the villain who was scheming to deny the Ukrainian people their freedom. What the West chose not to see was that Mr. Yushchenko is more a technocrat than a leader, and that Ms. Tymoshenko was at best a tactical ally whose suspect fortune and populist politics were bound to come in conflict with Mr. Yushchenko's plodding pragmatism."b'More to the point, many in the West chose to overlook the fact that Ukraine, like most other former Soviet republics (with the exception of the three small Baltic states), remains intricately intertwined with Russia and the other republics. In Ukraine, part of the Slavic core of the old Soviet empire, half the residents still identify closely with Russia, both ethnically and nationally. So to believe that Mr. Yushchenko could single-handedly shift Ukraine into the Western orbit was na\xc3\xafve. Not only was Russia interfering, but Europe was, and is, far more interested in Russian gas than in Ukrainian democracy.'b'Fifteen years on, the dismantling of the Soviet state is a work in progress and politics is still largely a bald power struggle, with countless players and alliances. In Ukraine, thousands of candidates and 45 parties are slugging it out for 450 seats in the March 26 parliamentary elections. It is typical, and predictable, that incumbents have pounced on Mr. Yushchenko for having been forced to accept doubled gas prices from Russia. Oddly enough, Mr. Putin is achieving what Mr. Yushchenko failed to do. By punishing Mr. Yushchenko for trying to pull Ukraine away from Russia, Mr. Putin is pushing Ukraine away from Russia.'b'The taxpayer advocate at the Internal Revenue Service told Congress last week that since 2001, the I.R.S. has labeled as fraudulent the tax returns of 1.6 million people and has frozen their refunds without notice, although most appear to have done nothing wrong. Overwhelmingly, the taxpayers are poor and are simply applying for a break created for them.'b"Members of the staff of the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees the I.R.S., met in private yesterday with crime investigators from the agency. The committee's chairman then issued a letter to the Treasury secretary with the right goal: correcting the I.R.S.'s apparent failure to balance the rights of taxpayers against the need to fight fraud. But the issues raised by the frozen refunds don't end there. Congress should hold public hearings."b'The taxpayer advocate represents taxpayers whose problems are not satisfactorily resolved, then reports each year to Congress on the most serious problems encountered. According to the 2005 annual report, 28,000 taxpayers who asked the advocate for help last year turned out to have refunds that had been frozen by I.R.S. investigators because of a finding or suspicion of fraud, or a previous finding of fraud that resulted in an automatic freeze on subsequent refunds. The number of complaints was nearly double the number for the year before.'b"The advocate, Nina Olson, had her office analyze a representative sample of 500 of the 28,000 frozen refunds. It turned out that 66 percent of the returns deserved the full refund, and 14 percent deserved a partial refund. The analysis also found that the median income of these taxpayers was $13,300 and the median refund was $3,519, which reflects a tax break aimed at the poor that's called the earned-income tax credit. These taxpayers typically waited eight and a half months for refunds that were, on average, about a quarter of their annual incomes."b'In a written response to Ms. Olson\'s findings, I.R.S. criminal investigators asserted that her sample had inflated the number of taxpayers wrongly accused of fraud. They based this assertion largely on the belief that innocent taxpayers "are much more likely" to pursue missing refunds than those who commit fraud. That misses the point. Many of the taxpayers involved -- who may be poor, less educated and busy, and who may not speak English -- are unlikely to confront the tax man, even if they have nothing to hide. The I.R.S. denied these people due process by determining fraud and freezing their refunds without telling them.'b'The most stratospheric estimate for the questionable refunds sought by the poor is $9 billion a year, of which fraud is likely to be only a small part. And yet, as Ms. Olson pointed out, the I.R.S. devotes vastly more resources to refund fraud than to the millions of people who fail to file returns or who underreport their incomes, at a cost to the Treasury of an estimated $100 billion a year. Audits of high-income individuals have increased recently, but little headway has been seen against the illegal offshore sheltering of personal wealth that the I.R.S., in 2002, said costs the Treasury an estimated $20 billion to $40 billion a year.'b'Tax policy during the Bush years has greatly favored rich taxpayers at the ultimate expense of the poor. Tax collection must not do the same.'b'DETROIT - I came to Detroit looking for the hottest new American cars. Instead, I found Sputnik.'b'You remember Sputnik -- the little satellite the Soviets launched in 1957. The Eisenhower administration was so stunned it put the U.S. into a crash program to train more scientists and engineers so America could catch up with the Russians in the space race.'b"Well, for anyone paying attention, our generation's Sputnik showed up at the annual Detroit auto show this week. It's not a satellite. It's a car. It's called the Geely 7151 CK sedan. It seats a family of five, gets good mileage and will cost around $10,000 when it goes on sale in 2008."b"It's made in China."b"That doesn't get your attention? Well, there's another Sputnik that just went up: Iran. It's going to make a nuclear bomb, no matter what the U.N. or U.S. says, because at $60-a-barrel oil, Tehran's mullahs are rich enough to buy off or tell off the rest of the world. That doesn't worry you? Well, there's a quieter Sputnik orbiting Earth. It's called climate change -- a k a Katrina and melting glaciers."b"What am I saying here? I am saying that our era doesn't have a single Sputnik to grab our attention and crystallize the threat to our security and way of life in one little steel ball -- the way our parents' era did. But that doesn't mean such threats don't exist. They do, and they have a single common denominator: the way we use and consume energy today, particularly oil."b"Friends, we are in the midst of an energy crisis -- but this is not your grandfather's energy crisis. No, this is something so much bigger, for four reasons."b'First, we are in a war against a radical, violent stream of Islam that is fueled and funded by our own energy purchases. We are financing both sides in the war on terrorism: the U.S. Army with our tax dollars, and Islamist charities, madrasas and terrorist organizations through our oil purchases.'b"Second, the world has gotten flat, and three billion new players from India, China and the former Soviet Union just walked onto the field with their version of the American dream: a house, a car, a toaster and a refrigerator. If we don't quickly move to renewable alternatives to fossil fuels, we will warm up, smoke up and choke up this planet far faster than at any time in the history of the world. Katrina will look like a day at the beach."b"Third, because of the above, green energy-saving technologies and designs -- for cars, planes, homes, appliances or office buildings -- will be one of the biggest industries of the 21st century. Tell your kids. China is already rushing down this path because it can't breathe and can't grow if it doesn't reduce its energy consumption. Will we dominate the green industry, or will we all be driving cars from China, Japan and Europe?"b'Finally, if we continue to depend on oil, we are going to undermine the whole democratic trend that was unleashed by the fall of the Berlin Wall. Because oil will remain at $60 a barrel and will fuel the worst regimes in the world -- like Iran -- to do the worst things for the world. Indeed, this $60-a-barrel boom in the hands of criminal regimes, and just plain criminals, will, if sustained, pose a bigger threat to democracies than communism or Islamism. It will be a black tide that turns back the democratic wave everywhere, including in Iraq.'b"The one thing we can do now to cope with all four of these trends is to create a tax that fixes the pump price at $3.50 to $4 a gallon -- no matter where the OPEC price goes. Because if consumers know that the price of oil is never coming down, they will change their behavior. And when consumers change their behavior in a big way, G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler will change their cars in a big way, and it is cars and trucks that consume a vast majority of the world's oil."b'The more Detroit goes green, the faster it will be propelled down the innovation curve, making it more likely that Detroit -- and not Toyota or Honda or the Chinese -- will dominate the green technologies of the 21st century. A permanent gasoline tax will also make solar, wind and biofuels so competitive with oil that it will drive their innovations as well.'b'George Bush may think he is preserving the American way of life by rejecting a gasoline tax. But if he does not act now -- starting with his State of the Union speech -- he will be seen as the man who presided over the decline of our way of life. He will be the American president who ignored the Sputniks of our day.'b'The checkered history of independent counsel investigations of high-profile officials ended with a 746-page thud yesterday. After 10 years, some $21 million and a great deal of cheerleading from the Republican majority in the House, the investigation of Henry Cisneros, the former housing secretary, is finally over.'b'Mr. Cisneros admitted long, long ago to lying about payments to a former mistress when he accepted a cabinet post in the Clinton administration. He paid a $10,000 fine after pleading guilty to a misdemeanor more than six years ago. But critics accused the Clinton administration of a cover-up and demanded an independent search for the truth. Reasonable people differed on whether that was necessary, but no one expected a grinding, decade-long quest to find a bigger, more interesting crime.'b'The investigator, David Barrett, seems to think that his work was nipped in the bud. In his final, innuendo-laced report, Mr. Barrett did not prove or disprove the politically charged allegation of that now-faded era. Instead, he concluded with fresh accusations that the Internal Revenue Service and Justice Department officials had thwarted his inquiry into whether Mr. Cisneros had committed tax evasion in the course of his peccadilloes.'b'The three-judge panel overseeing the counsel law initially ruled that accusations about Clinton officials were too flimsy to be made public. But the Republican-led Congress, in an exceedingly unusual show of interest in the full disclosure of government activities, ordered that the allegations be released anyway.'b"Congress allowed the independent counsel law to lapse after the exhausting spectacle of President Bill Clinton's impeachment trial. The $2 million a year spent by Mr. Barrett would have been better invested in trying to create a more workable process for the delicate but chronically necessary task of investigating the powers that be."b"I've been writing about the foibles of powerful public officials for more years than I care to reveal without a subpoena, and I still don't get it: why would someone risk his or her reputation and career for a lobbyist-bestowed freebie like a vacation at a deluxe resort?"b'Is it just plain old greed -- the irresistible lure of bathrooms with heated towels, outstanding golf and tennis, and ski valets who will warm your boots on a cold day and deliver them right to your door? Is the tendency to sponge inappropriately off rich special interests an inherited trait, the product of some yet to be mapped junket gene? Or is it environmental, a sad reflection of the social and political culture?'b"I'm more perplexed than ever after reading all about Tom DeLay's outing in 2000 to the St. Andrews golf course in Scotland with Jack Abramoff, the former superlobbyist turned star witness in the sweeping public corruption inquiry now enveloping Mr. DeLay, the former House majority leader, and a still untold number of his Congressional colleagues. In addition to revealing the need to tighten Congressional gift and fund-raising rules, the episode has helped expose a tangle of other unethical transactions and has already robbed Mr. DeLay of his Capitol Hill clout. What was the Hammer thinking?"b"But it must be noted that Mr. DeLay's junket habit is something he has in common with the nation's judiciary, which he has criticized so many times for the wrong reasons. (Recall, for example, his threatening anti-judge screed in the aftermath of the Terri Schiavo case.) In 2000, the year of Mr. DeLay's lobbyist-financed St. Andrews trip, nearly 100 federal judges engaged in distressingly similar behavior. These judges attended all-expenses-paid private seminars for judges held at resorts offering excellent golf, tennis, skiing and spa services. The trips were underwritten by monied interests out to influence judges to rule in favor of corporate interests on issues like environmental protection and liability for harmful products."b'Just as Mr. DeLay\'s Scotland trip with Mr. Abramoff was treated in official filings as privately sponsored "fact-finding," the judicial seminars are conducted under the innocuous-sounding banner of "judicial education." In reality, these slanted multiday sessions mock the ideal of an independent, impartial judiciary, and pose a threat to the appearance and reality of judicial integrity.'b'And it\'s not just judges from the lower federal courts who have deluded themselves into thinking that their trips will not undermine public trust. Just remember Justice Antonin Scalia\'s duck-hunting trip with Dick Cheney in 2004, shortly before the Supreme Court heard a big case of personal and political interest to the vice president. In September, Justice Scalia showed he\'d learned little from the episode when he failed to attend the swearing-in of Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. because he was teaching a seminar for the Federalist Society at the exclusive Beaver Creek ski area in Colorado. Justice Scalia permitted the society, an influential conservative legal group, to promote the event to lawyers, some of whom may have matters before the Supreme Court now or in the near future, as "a rare opportunity to spend time, both socially and intellectually," with a justice. The pitch had all the dignity and subtlety of a capital fund-raiser for a senior Ways and Means Committee member.'b"It would be nice if the judiciary itself would act to end judges' seamy travel perks, but when the ethics committee of the Judicial Conference took up the issue just two years go, it made the rules even more permissive. Last month, the American Bar Association committee charged with revising the A.B.A.'s influential Code of Official Conduct bowed to the wishes of the judiciary's small but vigorous Resort Caucus. It issued a draft perpetuating judicial junkets."b"That inspires me to offer a proposal. Embarrassed by ethics scandals, the Republicans who run Congress seem poised to enact new lobbying reforms, including a crackdown on lobbyist-financed travel. While they are in cleanup mode, why don't they also bar special interests from wining and dining the judiciary? Although the rules for judges might wisely include a few separate wrinkles -- like an overdue judicial pay raise or a small pot of money to underwrite real judicial educational programs -- the basic principle is the same. Members of Congress should not be accepting compromising free trips or other gifts, and neither should federal judges."b'Ithaca, N.Y. - THE day after Bolivians elected the populist Evo Morales as their first-ever indigenous president, a colleague of mine back in New York called to ask about the fate of my relatives still in the country. "I mean," he said, "now that the machete-wielding, coca-chewing campesinos have taken over, shouldn\'t they leave before it\'s too late?" He also asked me to describe what was happening in the streets of La Paz, which I was then visiting. Were white middle-class owners boarding up their shops? Had they stopped wearing Western clothing and, as a cartoonist suggested, flocked to buy ponchos?'b'I normally would have complained about his stereotypical view of Bolivians -- a people with such a penchant for coups and civil unrest that governing them has become an impossible feat -- but this time I could not. I was too shocked by the maturity of Bolivians\' reaction to Mr. Morales\'s election. Only seven months ago, the country was on the brink of civil war and regional disintegration, and Mr. Morales was seen by the urban, non-indigenous middle class as a rabble-rouser who, by ordering former miners, trade unionists and community activists to blockade roads and airports, had paralyzed the economy, isolated Bolivia from the rest of the world and toppled two elected presidents. People in the wealthy, eastern, lowland state of Santa Cruz, complaining of the "unruly Indians back in the West," were already demanding more autonomy from the central government; some were even calling for secession.'b'But when Evo Morales is inaugurated on Sunday, it will be thanks to the support of the educated middle class who used to be scared of him. Even in Santa Cruz, where middle-class white youngsters frequently pelted Mr. Morales with eggs upon his arrival at the airport, his Movement Toward Socialism party garnered enough votes on Election Day last month to acquire a seat in the national Senate. In truth, I had underestimated the ability of Bolivians to adjust to a new situation -- indeed, to any situation.'b'I should have known better. When I was growing up in a fairly affluent neighborhood of Cochabamba, Bolivia\'s third largest city, I blithely rearranged my soccer games and dating adventures around each new ordinance or curfew imposed by the revolving military juntas. "There never are solutions in Bolivia," says my father, a retired doctor. "But there are always exits."'b'And this time Mr. Morales offered an artful exit from what had come to seem like an endless economic and political crisis. The politicians of the traditional parties did not realize how weary Bolivians had grown of the corruption of the white-collar establishment, and of a 20-year-old neoliberal model that had been able to stabilize the economy but could not make it grow.'b'As my uncle reminded me shortly before the election, Mr. Morales was likely to win in some measure because one of the indigenous people\'s three main commandments was "do not steal" -- a rather surprising comment from my uncle, a retired general who, in 1993, had urged me to pray for the sitting president\'s health after an Aymara Indian had been elected vice president. All Mr. Morales had to do was to say time and again that while he was going to change the political and economic model, he would respect private property. He said that in plazas full of campesinos in the countryside, and in five-star hotel restaurants brimming with anxious businessmen.'b"Perhaps this is why some of my friends and relatives in Bolivia, even those who sometimes worried out loud about the coming Indian revenge against their former criollo rulers, willed themselves to pay attention only to the part of Mr. Morales's message that they wanted to hear. And Mr. Morales made it easy for them by quickly learning the main rule for a politician aspiring to the presidency: to adapt his message so that he can be whoever his listeners want him to be."b'Thus, in his first trip abroad as president-elect, he was the old-school radical leader when in the company of Venezuela\'s Hugo Ch\xc3\xa1vez and Cuba\'s Fidel Castro, but a reassuring voice in Spain and France, countries with interests in the Bolivian gas and oil industry who fear a nationalist confiscation of their holdings. At home, Mr. Morales has tempered his promise to abandon the neoliberal model with warnings that "we cannot undo in five years something that has been in place for decades."'b'Now, Bolivians have been fixating on what Mr. Morales will wear when he is invested as president Sunday. Will he choose traditional Indian dress, or, as a cousin of mine who voted for him wants, a "more appropriate" Western-style suit? Judging by what he has done and said lately, Mr. Morales seems likely to find a sartorial compromise aimed at pleasing as many voters as possible.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Edmundo Paz Sold\xc3\xa1n, a professor of Hispanic languages and literature at Cornell, is the author of the forthcoming "Turing\'s Delirium."'b"Enough is never enough, not when the government believes that it can invade your privacy without repercussions. The Justice Department wants a federal judge to force Google to turn over millions of private Internet searches. Google is rightly fighting the demand, but the government says America Online, Yahoo and MSN, Microsoft's online service, have already complied with similar requests."b"This is not about national security. The Justice Department is making this baldfaced grab to try to prop up an online pornography law that has been blocked once by the Supreme Court. And it's not the first time we've seen this sort of behavior. The government has zealously protected the Patriot Act's power to examine library records. It sought the private medical histories of a selected group of women, saying it needed the information to defend the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act in the federal courts."b"The furor is still raging over President Bush's decision to permit spying on Americans without warrants. And the government now wants what could be billions of search terms entered into Google's Web pages and possibly a million Web-site addresses to go along with them."b"Protecting minors from the nastier material on the Internet is a valid goal; the courts have asked the government to test whether technologies for filtering out the bad stuff are effective. And the government hasn't asked for users' personal data this time around. What's frightening is that the Justice Department is trying once again to dredge up information first and answer questions later, if at all. Had Google not resisted the government's attempt to seize records, would the public have ever found about the request?"b'The battle raises the question of how much of our personal information companies should be allowed to hold onto in the first place. Without much thought, Internet users have handed over vast quantities of private information to corporations. Many people don\'t realize that some innocuously named "cookies" in personal computers allow companies to track visits to various Web sites.'b'Internet users permit their e-mail to be read by people and machines in ways they would never tolerate for their old-fashioned mail. And much of that information is now collected and stored by companies like Google. When pressed on privacy issues, Google -- whose informal motto is "Don\'t be evil" -- says it can be trusted with this information. But profiling consumers\' behavior is potentially profitable for companies. And once catalogued, information can be abused by the government as well. Either way, the individual citizen loses.'b"How well do you know your dog? The answer is, not nearly as well as your dog knows you. Given the right incentives, humans can certainly be perceptive enough. But most dog lovers discover, sooner or later, that dogs have an alertness to the behavioral signs of their owners that humans rarely equal. And that's nothing. Scientists have recently discovered that dogs can distinguish, with almost unerring accuracy, between breath samples from people with lung cancer and from people without. The dogs have to be trained to do it, of course. But the fact that they can do it at all is remarkable. There aren't enough biscuits in the world to teach a human to smell at such an extraordinary level of subtlety."b'This news will give pause to almost anyone who lives with a dog. Just what a dog "knows" is hard to say, because the human idea of "knowing" is so closely related to the ability to express what you know. Even trained cancer-sniffing dogs express their knowledge -- their distinction between samples -- only by sitting or not sitting. But this is what always happens. We tend to forget the extraordinary powers of the animals we live with simply because we live with them. We tend to humanize them, which means, if nothing else, that we tend to reduce them -- in terms of their sensory powers -- to our muddling level. We can barely take in the fact that when a dog comes up and sniffs us, it is really giving us a nasal M.R.I.'b'Not that this will change the dynamic of our relations with man\'s best friend. For a while -- remembering the cancer-sniffing dogs -- some of us will wonder when we see our pets cock their heads, "What are you looking at?" But time will pass, and humans will be humans, and we will forget, at our end of the leash, that the beast we are walking with may already know things about us that we will discover only too late.'b'There were no big surprises in the official Iraqi election results announced yesterday, but there were some encouraging trends, including significantly expanded parliamentary representation for the discontented Sunni Arab minority. But real power will remain, as before, with the Shiite fundamentalist and Kurdish nationalist parties, a fair reflection of the demographic reality that Shiites and Kurds together account for almost 80 percent of the Iraqi population. Majorities rule in democratic elections, but they rule successfully only if they reach out to minorities and respond generously to their legitimate concerns.'b"Iraq has now consolidated a crude electoral democracy. But it remains a democracy that is glaringly deficient in women's rights, minority rights, physical security and economic opportunity. Many of those deficiencies can and should now be addressed."b'It is not yet clear how far the leading Shiite and Kurdish parties intend to go in this direction, and especially whether they will live up to their earlier promises to open up the severely flawed constitution to far-reaching changes. Those changes can be agreed upon and ratified only with their full support.'b"With the combined strength of the leading Shiite and Kurdish blocs only a few votes shy of a decisive two-thirds majority in the new Parliament, these two groupings may have the raw numbers to shut out the main Sunni groups. They shouldn't. Such a narrow course would prolong the insurgency and divert the newly elected Parliament from the constructive opportunities of nation-building to the grim challenges of civil war."b'The first step should be repairing the constitution by affirming the political and fiscal primacy of the central government; guaranteeing all women the right to resolve family and property disputes in civil courts, even if their husbands, parents or in-laws would prefer to have them settled by religious courts; and narrowing the restrictions against former Baath Party members to those top officials guilty of serious offenses.'b"The offending provisions of the current constitution were insisted on by the same Shiite fundamentalist and Kurdish nationalist parties that will dominate the new Parliament. The Bush administration has rightly been pressing them for months to repair the damage. But Iraq's most powerful Shiite politician, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, recently seemed to rule out some of the most badly needed changes."b"Now that the votes have been counted, Iraqi politicians should not repeat last year's costly delay in forming a cabinet. Their extended dickering demoralized voters and weakened the government that eventually emerged. They should move swiftly toward forming the national unity government that Mr. Hakim and other political leaders now say they want."b'That government should be sufficiently broad-based to include representative Sunni parties, as well as some of the small parties that tried to appeal across religious and community lines.'b'Conducting successful democratic elections in a country that has known mainly dictatorship is a substantial advance. Moving ahead to create a functioning, inclusive democracy would be a far more consequential achievement.'b"New Yorkers had their share of unneeded stress last month when transit workers walked off the job and stranded them just before the holidays. Now that the union's rank-and-file members have voted down the proposed contract -- by just 7 votes among 22,461 cast -- the city's millions of daily riders have a right to know that their transportation won't be illegally interrupted with another work stoppage."b"The rejection of the agreement was a self-defeating move. Roger Toussaint, president of the transit workers' local union, had waged an energetic campaign to get ratification, but the bile and resentment toward management that led to the strike had not receded. The contract would have been a good one for workers, with pay increases averaging 3.5 percent in each of the next three years. A retirement age of 55 was preserved for all employees, including the newly hired. Dissidents in the union unreasonably took umbrage over a requirement that they pay 1.5 percent of their paychecks toward health care insurance premiums."b"Gov. George Pataki's get-tough act was no help. He threatened to block a side agreement reimbursing thousands of workers for a total of about $130 million in overpayments toward their pensions. The amount is significant but seemed a fair arrangement. Workers and their union still face fines -- yet to be determined by a judge -- for each day the trains and buses did not run. That, too, seems fair."b'Mr. Toussaint has offered to head back to the bargaining table with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. With such a narrow gap, that seems prudent. But arbitration cannot be ruled out.'b'The workers all along said they wanted respect. New Yorkers heard them, and many empathized. But enough is enough. It is incumbent on all sides to get this contract settled.'b'GOV. GEORGE PATAKI, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Chancellor Joel Klein and other New York officials are in a huge hurry to raise the state limit on the number of charter schools, now set at 100. Bolstered by a growing demand for these more autonomous schools and some positive charter school test scores results in New York City, they seem to think that the more charter schools, the better for the children of our city and state.'b'But recent research suggests that not all charter schools are created equal, and that New York policymakers should focus more on the quality of existing charter schools and on how to support the good ones before they call for an expansion.'b'After Minnesota passed the first charter school law in 1991, the idea of creating publicly financed schools that were free from regulation but held accountable for student performance quickly became popular. Within 15 years, 40 states and the District of Columbia had passed charter school laws. Today there are an estimated 3,600 charter schools enrolling one million students nationwide.'b"Over the years, the charter school concept has appealed to a wide spectrum of people, including free-market reformers, advocates of testing to measure schools' performance, and progressive educators and parents. Indeed, in 1998 when New York passed its charter school law, in the headiest days of the movement, these schools were supposed to offer something for everyone. Their supporters promised they would increase student achievement, choice and innovation."b"But today, while the public's attitude toward charter schools remains mostly positive and many strong charter schools are up and running, those of us who study research findings realize that the promises charter school supporters made nearly a decade ago haven't been fulfilled."b'Whether we look at national or state test scores that measure student achievement, the results for charter schools in comparison to similar public schools nearby are mixed at best. In many cases, when comparing schools that have similar student bodies, researchers find the regular public school students doing better than those in charter schools.'b'After the American Federation of Teachers released a report in 2004 showing that charter school students tended to have lower scores on a national test than similar students in public schools, charter school proponents chalked up these findings to the anti-charter bias of the teachers union. But then the United States Department of Education examined the same data and came up with similar results several months later.'b"Indeed, if last spring's New York City test scores for charter schools were subjected to a more sophisticated analysis that took into account the backgrounds of students in charter and regular public schools, it is not clear that charters would fare as positively as they did on the state's eighth-grade exam. Meanwhile, the scores for fourth graders in charter and public schools in New York City were similar."b'In addition to this wobbly achievement data, there is little evidence that charter schools are being held more accountable for student achievement than are regular public schools. In this era of No Child Left Behind, when all schools are subject to strict sanctions for not making adequate yearly progress toward helping all students achieve proficiency on state exams, charter schools have no special claim to accountability.'b'And as it turns out, charter schools are more likely to have their charters revoked for fiscal malfeasance than they are for low test scores. Last year, fiscal and legal concerns impelled California to close a chain of 60 charter schools serving 6,000 students.'b"If that is not enough bad news to dampen New York lawmakers' enthusiasm for creating more charter schools, there is mounting evidence that these schools serve as new kinds of sorting machines, leading to more racial or class segregation within local communities. We also know that charter schools overall are far less likely to serve the growing numbers of special education students or students who don't know English, leaving local public schools to serve larger percentages of these students."b'And when it comes to innovation, research suggests that charter schools are more innovative in their efforts to use public funds to support private ventures than they are in instructional practices. This may please free-market supporters of charter schools who have defined "strong" charter laws as those that foster large numbers of charter schools regardless of the quality of those schools.'b'The focus solely on quantity encourages private investors to try to make money by running substandard charter schools and skimming off public money for themselves. Such was the case in California last year when the chain of schools was shut down. This is not the first time this has happened in a "strong" law state, and when it does children and state taxpayers are the victims. I have studied charter schools in California and urge my fellow New Yorkers not to support a law that could open the door to the proliferation of such institutions.'b"Indeed, New York should lead the way in redefining charter school reform as being not about quantity, but about quality. The state, especially New York City, has a rich history of public school choice -- alternative and magnet schools and now small high schools -- that are models. Let's not compromise that history in an effort to support free-market ideology over common sense. Those of us who support charter school reform because of its pedagogical promise should encourage our local politicians to focus on what is best for children. That means paying more attention to the data than the rhetoric."b'Op-Ed Contributor Amy Stuart Wells is a professor of sociology and education at Columbia University\'s Teachers College and the author of "Where Charter School Policy Fails."'b'Albany - THE governor of New York vowed in his State of the State address earlier this month to "dramatically" expand the number of charter schools, now capped by state law at 100, and the battle lines have been drawn.'b"But whether you favor charter schools or oppose them is of small consequence because the issue of expansion has little to do with students, classrooms, course curriculums or textbooks. It's mostly about taxes."b'Much of the recent focus in the charter school debate has been on New York City, which has opened about half of the new charter schools and whose mayor has requested to double that total. The political question, however, is the impact of these schools outside of the City, where unlike New York, school budgets must be approved by residents, who pay for them through property taxes. And although the suburbs and upstate communities are where Governor Pataki has derived most of his political support, voters in these areas are increasingly worried about how his policies will affect local school taxes.'b"The 1998 charter school law, which I had a hand in negotiating with the governor's strong impetus, has a very large flaw, which if not corrected could fatally undermine efforts to increase charter schools statewide."b"Most of the money for a charter school comes from the budget of the public school district it's in. When a charter school starts up, the district suddenly has to finance a brand new school and decide whether to go to the taxpayers for more money or to cut optional but important educational programs and extracurricular activities at regular schools."b"Given this dilemma, most districts have tried to raise school taxes to cover their extra costs. Sometimes the voters approve, sometimes they don't. But these proposed tax increases always create debates and lingering animosity, and in 2006 -- thanks to higher fuel, health and pension costs -- school district voters are going to have enough to deal with."b'If the State believes that charter schools are an essential part of its drive for higher standards, greater choice and academic success, it must make them financially feasible for hard-pressed school districts.'b'One way would be for the governor to push to make the cost of a charter school a reimbursable expense, like the cost for school buses or construction. That way, districts are reimbursed on the basis of their tax base, with a greater share allotted to poorer districts.'b'The governor can boldly step forward and demonstrate his commitment and confidence in charter schools by not only raising the cap but also raising the ante to help pay for these schools. And in so doing, he will lessen the burden on already beleaguered local property taxpayers.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Steven Sanders, a former Democratic assemblyman from Manhattan, is a partner at a government-consulting firm.'b'Dec. 18, 1955, was a big day for the brand-new, already annoying Tappan Zee Bridge.'b'"NEW BRIDGE CROWDED," read the headline in The Times. The article began: "The new Tappan Zee bridge of the New York Thruway was crowded today, its first Sunday, by Westchester and Rockland County residents crossing the Hudson. A minor accident at 3:30 P.M. caused a twenty-minute tieup."'b'Those words, with a little tweak, could have been written last week. Except the actual Times article from Thursday read this way: "On the Tappan Zee Bridge, two trucks overturned in the morning, shutting the span for three hours. Traffic backed up for 10 miles on the western side of the bridge  "'b'It has been a grim 50 years for the Tappan Zee, as indispensable as it is ugly and unloved. It was built cheaply under a cloud of scorn that has never lifted. (Another Times article, from 1951, carried the headline "TAPPAN ZEE BRIDGE CALLED \'ERROR."\' In it a Mr. Paul Windels of the Regional Plan Association mocked its "freak design" and asked why such an "unsightly" structure was being built at one of the Hudson\'s widest points, where it was "possibly a menace to navigation.")'b'Now the bridge has reached the end of its expected life span, and the state is belatedly rushing to decide whether to fix this old error by repairing or replacing it. The solutions being considered are all expensive and time-consuming -- building a new bridge, for example, could be an eight-year, $14.5 billion job. For this reason Gov. George E. Pataki wants to privatize the project, selling all or part of a new or repaired bridge to companies that would recoup costs through tolls.'b"We'll wait to see details, but privatizing in this instance could easily make vital public infrastructure hostage to companies whose primary loyalties are to profits and shareholders. Companies can go belly up, but the Tappan Zee can't."b'Whatever the planners decide, the old Tappan Zee is already cracked, crumbling and full of holes. Repairs are expected to cost $100 million next year. Drivers who both hate and need the Tappan Zee will have lots of time while crawling along its withered roadbed to muse about the cost of government neglect and the depressing inability of the once-mighty Empire State to pull off something as straightforward and important as a good, solid, durable Hudson River bridge.'b"They can be forgiven for musing darkly about the Tappan Zee's lapsed expiration date, and for hoping that it is not the bridge's destiny to someday become, quite unexpectedly, an artificial reef."b'Most of the people who helped elect Kathleen Rice last November as Nassau County district attorney could not have known her personally. (Her family is big, but not that big.) The voters looked at her resume as a prosecutor in Brooklyn and Philadelphia, accepted her promise to be a tough, independent crime-fighter, and showed Denis Dillon the door after 31 years.'b'Nobody ever said she was an experienced administrator or politician, but given the abundance of feeble minds in the executive suites, legislatures and town halls of this world, that seemed like the easy part. Though Ms. Rice was a political unknown, she was obviously smart and looked like a safe bet.'b'She still does, but she has stumbled out of the gate in ways that make even her supporters wince. Consider the following, a paraphrased conversation heard a few times last week:'b'Q. You know Kathleen Rice, the Nassau D.A.? She hired an executive assistant. Her sister-in-law.'b'A. (Wince.)'b"The hiring of Cheryl Rice to answer mail and handle scheduling for the district attorney at a salary of $95,000 a year, which was first reported in Newsday, is not in itself a nepotism crisis. For one, Cheryl Rice appears to have qualifications that go beyond being married to Ms. Rice's brother Larry. She was a campus coordinator and events manager at Suffolk Community College and held positions of similar responsibility at Nassau Coliseum and the United States Tennis Association. She is not a no-account relative with a no-show job."b"But her hiring looks bad, and thus by the unforgiving realities of politics in a place all too familiar with official corruption and coziness -- it is bad. Ms. Rice says she hired Cheryl Rice, at a salary $5,000 higher than her predecessor's, because she wanted a trusted aide beside her as she took on the giant task of reshaping the district attorney's office for the first time in decades. But Ms. Rice also promised voters a clean break from the old ways of doing things. By any standard, hiring your sister-in-law at a premium salary is definitely old school."b'Ms. Rice says the family hiring begins and ends with Cheryl. She adds that she fully expects to acquire a reputation as district attorney that anybody would be proud of. But she should remember that her momentum has so far been fueled only by promises and good will. She should be careful not to squander it on ill-considered personnel moves.'b'PLANS to build a new Yankee Stadium in the South Bronx have kicked up a small storm of local protest. Many people who live near Mullaly and Macombs Dam Parks, where the new stadium will be built, are concerned about what it will mean for their neighborhood, and rightfully so. But the crucial public policy question here is whether there will be a net benefit for residents of the Bronx and the other boroughs. The answer is yes.'b"Those who want no disruption and the maintenance of the status quo need to think again. The existing stadium was built in 1923 and grows more unsafe and expensive to maintain with each year. The Yankees have been spending nearly $10 million a year on maintenance at Yankee Stadium -- money that their lease allows them to deduct from the rent they pay the city. Engineering studies say it's time to build a new stadium."b'The Yankees are proposing a fair financial deal to the city. Nationally, during the last 15 years, the public share in stadium development costs (that is, the stadium plus roads, utilities and so forth) for professional sports has averaged around 75 percent. The Yankees are planning to spend $800 million of their own money on the new stadium (no major league baseball team has spent more than $300 million on their own playing field). The city and state together will spend about $210 million for improvements in the neighborhood. By this reckoning, the public share is only about 21 percent.'b'Yet most of this public spending will be of direct benefit to the community, and a significant share will come back to the state and city. As part of the $210 million, the city will spend a projected $130 million to replace and upgrade the parks and their athletic facilities. According to the plan, there will be 10 percent more park space, more ball fields, an upgrade to the existing running track and soccer field and the addition of basketball, handball and tennis courts.'b'Contrary to some reports, these fields will be at ground level. Other than the new tennis center, which will be on the river (part of a 5.5-acre riverfront park with esplanade and bubble for winter use), the fields and open space are linked, and adjacent to the new stadium. Together with the development of surrounding commercial space and the prospect for a new Metro-North platform, the project will be a major facelift for the area and help gentrify the South Bronx.'b"Also part of the $210 million is the state's investment of $70 million into new parking garages. Under the proposal, all parking revenue would go back to the state and more than pay off the investment. The city and state would each contribute $5 million toward other improvements."b'Further, the city will be able to sell off all the seats and other memorabilia from the present Yankee Stadium, lowering its net cost on the project. The Yankees are also agreeing to cover any cost overruns on the new stadium.'b'Naysayers will object that the Yankees contemplate getting a substantial part of the construction financing from tax-exempt bonds issued by a new local development corporation. Debt service on these bonds will be covered by the Yankees via payments in lieu of taxes to the corporation. The critics will argue that if the Yankees cover the debt service instead of paying taxes, then, in effect, the public treasury is paying for the bonds and the stadium through forfeited tax collections.'b"This objection was valid in the case of the vetoed West Side stadium for the Jets, but it applies only to a small degree to the Yankees project. The Bronx is already in a tax abatement zone -- commercial developers in the borough don't pay real estate taxes on new projects for 15 years."b'So while it could be argued that in net terms, the Yankees are contributing only $756 million to the new stadium and not $800 million, the team is still paying 75 percent of the total project costs.'b"All major investment projects, no matter how positive they may be for a community, disrupt the life of somebody. Undoubtedly, some residents will be made worse off. But as an investment, the Yankees' stadium plan is a winner for the Bronx and all of New York."b'Op-Ed Contributor Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College, is the author of the forthcoming "In the Best Interests of Baseball? The Revolutionary Reign of Bud Selig."'b'Gov. George Pataki has proposed turning a woodsy upstate prison into a pseudo-prison for certain convicted sex offenders who have already done their time. His impulse is understandable: rather than allow men who seem likely to repeat terrible crimes back onto the street, why not lock them up for psychiatric treatment until they get their impulses under control? The United States Supreme Court has declared the practice permissible for people deemed "mentally abnormal," and 16 other states have so-called civil-confinement laws.'b"But it isn't necessary to be a raging civil libertarian to be queasy about the Pataki plan, under which the state would spend $130 million to raze and replace Camp Pharsalia, 50 miles north of Binghamton, with a new treatment center run by the State Office of Mental Health."b'There will never be an easy or wholly satisfying solution to the problem of violent sexual criminals. Sickened by highly publicized crimes against children and dubious about the odds of rehabilitation, Congress and the states have been adopting ever-tougher laws governing where and how sex offenders can live, work and travel.'b'But peace of mind has been elusive. An era that began with laws requiring freed sex offenders to register with local law-enforcement officials now features laws requiring notification of neighbors when offenders move in, the posting of offenders\' names on the Web, electronic monitoring and restrictive "distance laws" meant to keep them away from places like schools and parks.'b"Preventive detention for violent sex offenders is the natural end point of the logic embraced by Mr. Pataki and his allies: that these are a special class of misfits whom existing laws are incapable of subduing, and that no price is too high for safety. But while no one disputes society's obligation to protect the innocent, it is fair to ask whether the state's limited resources might be better deployed at the front end of the problem. A bill sponsored in the Assembly by Speaker Sheldon Silver and Joseph Lentol, while allowing for the civil confinement of sexual predators, places a heavier emphasis on treatment behind bars. The current prison treatment system, underfunded and understaffed, typically offers six months of group therapy run by corrections officials. The Assembly bill would require at least two years of treatment by mental health professionals for everyone imprisoned for a felony sex offense, and provide for continued treatment after release."b'But treatment is not the entire answer. Few would deny that the universe of sex criminals includes a small number of repeat offenders who do not respond to therapy, and that the criminal-justice system will eventually run out of ways to deal with them. The admittedly imperfect answer in that case would be to seek longer sentences for violent sex crimes to reduce the chances that dangerous predators will be released too soon, and to aggressively monitor offenders upon release with electronic bracelets and a strengthened parole system.'b'Psychiatric treatment in prisons, intensive outpatient therapy and close monitoring are, in the main, preferable to a questionable reliance on preventive detention. The remaking of Camp Pharsalia, in fact, seems more like an upstate jobs program. We should not forget that only last year lawmakers were urging Mr. Pataki to keep Camp Pharsalia open somehow, lest its neighbors lose 100 jobs and $11 million in economic activity.'b'We are all for upstate development, but the more urgent questions have to do with public safety and whether lavishing resources on a place for warehousing a small subset of sex offenders -- rather than aggressively treating and keeping tabs on a far larger cohort of criminals -- will really make all of us safer, or just make it seem that way.'b'IF James Frey hadn\'t made up his own life, Tom Wolfe would have had to invent it for him. The fraudulent memoirist is to the early 21st century what Mr. Wolfe\'s radical-chic revelers were to the late 1960\'s and his Wall Street "masters of the universe" were to the go-go 1980\'s: a perfect embodiment of the most fashionable American excess of an era.'b'As Oprah Winfrey, the ultimate arbiter of our culture, has made clear, no one except pesky nitpickers much cares whether Mr. Frey\'s autobiography is true or not, or whether it sits on a fiction or nonfiction shelf at Barnes &amp; Noble. Such distinctions have long since washed away in much of our public life. What matters most now is whether a story can be sold as truth, preferably on television. The mock Comedy Central pundit Stephen Colbert\'s slinging of the word "truthiness" caught on instantaneously last year precisely because we live in the age of truthiness.'b'At its silliest level, this is manifest in show-biz phenomena like Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey, juvenile pop stars who merchandised the joy of their new marriage as a lucrative MTV reality series before heading to divorce court to divvy up the booty. But if suckers want to buy fictional nonfiction like "Newlyweds" or "A Million Little Pieces" as if they were real, that\'s just harmless diversion.'b'It\'s when truthiness moves beyond the realm of entertainment that it\'s a potential peril. As Seth Mnookin, a rehab alumnus, has written in Slate, the macho portrayal of drug abuse in "Pieces" could deter readers battling actual addictions from seeking help. Ms. Winfrey\'s blithe re-endorsement of the book is less laughable once you start to imagine some Holocaust denier using her imprimatur to discount Elie Wiesel\'s incarceration at Auschwitz in her next book club selection, "Night."'b'This isn\'t just a slippery slope. It\'s a toboggan into chaos, or at least war. As everyone knows now -- except for the 22 percent, according to a recent Harris poll, who still believe that Saddam helped plan 9/11 -- it\'s the truthiness of all those imminent mushroom clouds that sold the invasion of Iraq. What\'s remarkable is how much fictionalization plays a role in almost every national debate. Even after a big humbug is exposed as blatantly as Professor Marvel in "The Wizard of Oz" -- FEMA\'s heck of a job in New Orleans, for instance -- we remain ready and eager to be duped by the next tall tale. It\'s as if the country is living in a permanent state of suspension of disbelief.'b"Democrats who go berserk at their every political defeat still don't understand this. They fault the public for not listening to their facts and arguments, as though facts and arguments would make a difference, even if the Democrats were coherent. It's the power of the story that always counts first, and the selling of it that comes second. Accuracy is optional. The Frey-like genius of the right is its ability to dissemble with a straight face while simultaneously mustering the slick media machinery and expertise to push the goods. It not only has the White House propaganda operation at its disposal, but also an intricate network of P.R. outfits and fake-news outlets that are far more effective than their often hapless liberal counterparts."b'The selling of Samuel Alito is a perfect illustration of how our world works. From the moment Judge Alito emerged from Harriet Miers\'s penumbra, his supporters\' story line was clear: he\'d be presented as a humble exemplar of American values too mainstream to be labeled "out of the mainstream" by his opponents. In his first courtesy calls on Capitol Hill in November, we learned, Judge Alito often cited his father as a proud immigrant who instilled in him empathy for minorities and the poor -- an empathy not remotely apparent in the judge\'s legal record. A particularly poignant anecdote had it that his father had once defended a black basketball player from discrimination in college.'b'Yet David Kirkpatrick of The Times reported then that "some colleagues and friends of the elder Mr. Alito, who died in 1987, said they had never heard some of the stories his son has recounted, including the episode about his support for the black student and the fact that his father immigrated from Italy as a child." No matter. If such questions couldn\'t stop an Oprah Book Club selection, they certainly wouldn\'t stop a nominee to the Supreme Court.'b"Once Judge Alito came before the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Democrats decided to counter the Republicans' story by coming up with a fictional story of their own, or that's what they did once they stopped bloviating. Their fictional biography cast Judge Alito as an out-and-out bigot. The major evidence cited to support this characterization was his listing his membership in Concerned Alumni of Princeton (CAP), a conservative group founded in reaction to the upheavals of the Vietnam era, on a job application for the Reagan Justice Department."b'Judge Alito testified that he had joined CAP because it supported the R.O.T.C. on campus, adding that he did not remember having "done anything substantial in relation to this group, including renewing my membership." The Democrats plunged on, betting the house (or the Supreme Court) on Teddy Kennedy\'s insistence that Judge Alito could be linked to what the senator described as CAP\'s "repulsive anti-woman, anti-black, anti-disability, anti-gay pronouncements." In one of only two dramatic moments in the whole soporific confirmation process -- a "Sunshine Boys"-style spat with the committee chairman, Arlen Specter -- Mr. Kennedy threatened to subpoena CAP "documents in the possession of the Library of Congress" to hunt down Judge Alito\'s bigotry.'b"There was only one problem with the Democrats' fictional story line: it had been exposed as fake on the front page of The Times weeks before Mr. Kennedy presented it to the nation. Mr. Kirkpatrick reported that he had examined the same papers Mr. Kennedy was threatening to subpoena -- as well as some others at Princeton's own library -- and found no trace of Judge Alito's involvement with CAP as either an active participant or a major donor. When the Senate committee did Mr. Kennedy's bidding and looked at those documents yet again, it found exactly what The Times had in November, calling the senator's bluff and ending any remote chance the Democrats had for keeping Judge Alito off the court. It says everything about the Democrats' ineptitude that when they spin fiction, they are incapable of meeting even the low threshold of truthiness needed to make it fly in this lax cultural environment."b"THE Republicans would never have been so sloppy. Indeed, hardly had Mr. Kennedy's melodramatic stunt blown up in his face than they came up with a new story line prompted by the other dramatic incident in the hearings: the departure of Martha-Ann Alito from the committee room in tears. She fled while a Republican senator, Lindsey Graham, was mocking the Democrats, not when the eminently mockable Democrats were mounting their lame assault. Whatever. As Time magazine later reported, a P.R. outfit called Creative Response Concepts immediately pumped up the media volume of her supposed martyrdom, breathlessly producing a former Alito clerk to provide eyewitness testimony of her suffering at the hands of those Democratic brutes."b'Creative Response Concepts did similar work for the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth during the 2004 campaign. Its roster of clients also includes the right-wing Media Research Center, itself the parent organization of something called the Cybercast News Service. For the new year, Cybercast News has an exciting fictional project of its own: just before John Murtha, the tough Congressional critic of the Iraq war, appeared on "60 Minutes" last Sunday, it started Swift Boating him by rewriting his Vietnam history to besmirch the legitimacy of his two Purple Hearts.'b'If Karl Rove\'s White House propaganda factory is the NBC Universal or Time Warner of G.O.P. fictionalization, then the Miramax and Focus Features of the right are such nominally "independent" satellites as Cybercast News, the Lincoln Group (which places fake news stories in Iraqi newspapers), the Rendon Group (which helped manufacture the heroic image of Ahmad Chalabi) and the now-dormant Talon News (the fake Republican-staffed news site whose fake White House correspondent, Jeff Gannon, was unmasked last year).'b'Fittingly enough against this backdrop, last week brought the re-emergence of Clifford Irving, the author of the fake 1972 autobiography of Howard Hughes that bamboozled the world long before fraudulent autobiographies and biographies were cool. He announced that he was removing his name from "The Hoax," a coming Hollywood movie recounting his exploits, because of what he judged its lack of fidelity to "the truth of what happened." That Mr. Irving can return like Rip van Winkle after all these years to take the moral high ground in defense of truthfulness is a sign of just how low into truthiness we have sunk.'b'To my readers: Starting next week, I will be on a book leave, writing nonfiction about our post-9/11 fictions. See you in the spring.'b'Washington - EVERY year, on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, pro-lifers add up the fetuses killed since Roe and pray for the outlawing of abortion. And every year, pro-choicers fret that we\'re one Supreme Court justice away from losing "the right to choose." One side is so afraid of freedom it won\'t trust women to do the right thing. The other side is so afraid of morality it won\'t name the procedure we\'re talking about.'b"It's time to shake up this debate. It's time for the abortion-rights movement to declare war on abortion."b"If you support abortion rights, this idea may strike you as nuts. But look at your predicament. Most Americans support Roe and think women, not the government, should make abortion decisions. Yet they've entrusted Congress and the White House to politicians who oppose legal abortion, and they haven't stopped the confirmations to the Supreme Court of John G. Roberts Jr. and, soon, Samuel A. Alito Jr."b"You can tell yourself that the pro-choice majority stayed home in the last election, or that they voted on other issues, or that Democrats botched the debate. But those excuses are getting tired. Sixteen years ago, as the behavior of voters and politicians showed, abortion was clearly a winning issue for you. Now it isn't. You have a problem."b"The problem is abortion -- the word that's missing from all the checks you've written to Planned Parenthood, Naral Pro-Choice America, the Center for Reproductive Rights and the National Organization for Women. Fetal pictures propelled the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act and the Unborn Victims of Violence Act through Congress. And most Americans supported both bills, because they agree with your opponents about the simplest thing: It's bad to kill a fetus."b"They're right. It is bad. I know many women who decided, in the face of unintended pregnancy, that abortion was less bad than the alternatives. But I've never met a woman who wouldn't rather have avoided the pregnancy in the first place."b"This is why the issue hasn't gone away. Abortion, like race-conscious hiring, generates moral friction. Most people will tolerate it as a lesser evil or a temporary measure, but they'll never fully accept it. They want a world in which it's less necessary. If you grow complacent or try to institutionalize it, they'll run out of patience. That's what happened to affirmative action. And it'll happen to abortion, if you stay hunkered down behind Roe."b"Roe is 33 years old today. It freed us from ham-fisted criminal laws that pretended to solve the abortion problem. But it didn't solve the problem, and it never will. It gave us the opportunity -- and the challenge -- to help women exercise choice before, not after, fetal development. In the moral arc of history, abortion was a step forward from infanticide. Abortion pills that act early in pregnancy are the next step, followed by morning-after pills, which prevent implantation. The ultimate destination is contraception or abstinence."b'For several decades, abortion-rights advocates have tried to change the subject. The real question, they argued, was who should make the abortion decision, not what that decision should be. With the question put that way, they won. But they never faced the question of abortion\'s morality. So the debate became a contest between the two questions. A decade ago, with the coinage of "partial-birth abortion," pro-lifers gained the upper hand. President Bush focused the debate on a culture of life. When the question is "what" instead of "who" -- morality instead of autonomy -- pro-lifers win.'b'The lesson of those decades is that you can\'t eliminate the moral question by ignoring it. To eliminate it, you have to agree on it: Abortion is bad, and the ideal number of abortions is zero. But by conceding that, you don\'t end the debate, you narrow it. Once you agree that the goal is fewer abortions, the only thing left to debate is how to get there. As a politician might put it: "My opponent and I are both pro-life. We want to avoid as many abortions as we can. The difference is, I trust women to work with me toward that objective, and he doesn\'t."'b"Isn't that better than anything you heard from John Kerry?"b"The problem with using restrictions to reduce the number of abortions isn't that the restrictions are judgmental. It's that they're crude. They leap too easily from judgment to legislation and criminalization. They drag police officers, prosecutors and politicians into personal tragedies. Most people don't want such intrusion. But you lose them up front by refusing to concede that there's anything wrong with abortion. You have to offer them anti-abortion results (fewer abortions) without anti-abortion laws."b"The pro-choice path to those results is simple. Help every woman when she doesn't want an abortion: before she's pregnant. That means abstinence for those who can practice it, and contraception for everybody else. Nearly half of the unintended pregnancies in this country result in abortions, and at least half of our unintended pregnancies are attributable to women who didn't use contraception. The pregnancy rate among these women astronomically exceeds the pregnancy rate among women who use contraception. The No. 1 threat to the unborn isn't the unchurched. It's the unprotected."b"Solutions are already on the table. Give more money to Title X, the federal program that finances family-planning. Expand health insurance and access to morning-after pills. Educate teenagers about sex, birth control and abstinence. Many of these ideas are in the Prevention First Act, which Democrats ritually file and Republicans ritually ignore. Some pro-choice activists would go further, by pushing for more contraceptive diligence in the abortion counseling process, especially on the part of those women who come back for a second abortion. What's missing is a clear anti-abortion message to unite these proposals."b'A year ago, Senator Hillary Clinton marked Roe\'s anniversary by reminding family planning advocates that abortion "represents a sad, even tragic choice to many, many women." Some people in the audience are reported to have gasped or shaken their heads during her speech. Perhaps they thought she had said too much.'b'The truth is, she didn\'t say enough. What we need is an explicit pro-choice war on the abortion rate, coupled with a political message that anyone who stands in the way, yammering about chastity or a "culture of life," is not just anti-choice, but pro-abortion. If the pro-choice movement won\'t lead the way, politicians just might.'b'Op-Ed Contributor William Saletan, Slate\'s national correspondent, is the author of "Bearing Right: How Conservatives Won the Abortion War."'b"What if, before your next meal, you first had to fill out paperwork and then wait hours in a crowded office to be interviewed and fingerprinted? That is not a hypothetical situation for many of New York's working poor -- hundreds of thousands of whom are eligible for food stamps but do not get them because of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles."b'Recent studies by the Urban Justice Center and others document how difficult and degrading it can be for the hungry to get help. Despite improvements, like the state-mandated reduction in paperwork, the city still must regain ground lost under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who built a wall of red tape to express his distaste for the program.'b'For many of the working poor, food stamps are a necessity, often the difference between having to decide whether to pay the rent or eat. According to various estimates, New York has effectively turned its back on more than $700 million in federal funds that it would receive if every eligible New Yorker enrolled in the food stamp program. That money would be spent in grocery stores and bodegas, boosting the local economy.'b'The City Council, led by Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn and Eric Gioia of Queens, has been prodding the Human Resources Administration to accept applications by fax and to allow people to apply online and at food pantries and soup kitchens. The Bloomberg administration should embrace these ideas.'b"One hopeful sign is Mayor Michael Bloomberg's s appointment of Linda Gibbs to be deputy mayor for human resources. Ms. Gibbs helped shape the city's program for the homeless. It is the city's hungry who now require her attention. She could start by instructing workers to stop fingerprinting every applicant. New York is one of a few states that requires this costly and obstructive process. Hunger is indignity enough."b'After getting off to a promising start last fall, the new Medicare prescription drug program has stumbled badly in recent weeks, leaving tens of thousands of patients unable to obtain essential medicines. We can only hope that Medicare officials fix the glitches quickly before public disenchantment undermines prospects for enrolling enough people to give the new program real prospects for success. When the dust settles, it will be imperative to pinpoint how the problems arose, how much they reflect government ineptitude or malfeasance by private companies, and how further fiascos can be avoided.'b'The immediate problems have little to do with the most common complaint against the program, namely that many people find it dreadfully confusing to choose a good drug plan from a bewildering array of options offered by private insurers. Instead, most of the snags occurred in the part that should have been the easiest to execute smoothly -- the automatic switchover of more than six million poor people from the Medicaid programs in their home states to the new Medicare drug program.'b"The Medicaid recipients were randomly assigned to a private drug plan, with the option to switch to another if they were dissatisfied. Along the way, as data bounced from one bureaucracy and set of computers to the next, some people's names dropped out of the system. Others, though listed as enrolled, were not earmarked as they should have been for the lowest level of co-payments. Thus many poor people found that when they showed up at the pharmacy they either were denied coverage or were asked to pay hundreds of dollars in deductibles or co-payments. Pharmacists who tried to call the private drug plans could seldom get through. And some plans improperly refused to approve drugs during the transition as they were required to."b'Nobody knows how many people were affected, but officials acknowledge it may be in the tens of thousands. California alone says that some 200,000 of its one million Medicaid patients had trouble getting medications during the switchover, an astonishing error rate. More than 20 states stepped in to guarantee drug coverage until the glitches are resolved. They had little choice, given the potentially catastrophic consequences for people who depend on their medicines to keep mental illness at bay, pain at tolerable levels and diabetes or other ailments under control.'b'This is a disheartening setback for a critical program and we can only hope that Michael Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, is right that after everyone has used the new drug card at least once, the system will run more smoothly.'b'If not, any further snags are apt to throw a cloud over the whole program just when it desperately needs to attract more participants. Officials have been trying to deflect the recent bad news with exaggerated claims of success. Mr. Leavitt announced with great pride that some 24 million of the elderly had drug coverage. But 20 million of those24 million already had drug coverage, through retiree plans, Medicaid or other programs.'b"The real measure of success will be how many people sign up who previously had little or no drug coverage -- a pool estimated at 12 million to 14 million, or possibly more. Only about 3.6 million signed up voluntarily for Medicare's new stand-alone drug plans in the first 60 days of the enrollment period -- a modest figure undoubtedly due at least in part to the complexity of the system. Worse yet, those who would benefit the most from the new drug coverage, namely low-income people entitled to special subsidies, have been disproportionately slow to sign up."b"Federal officials and private health plans will have to reach out more vigorously to raise the numbers before the enrollment period ends on May 15. They have a long way to go to prove their argument that their approach was better than that of a classic federal program like the original Medicare. Their efforts will not be helped if further glitches continue to tar the program's image."b'The news that "American Idol" has started a new season with ratings even more enormous than last year\'s reminds us of an old query. In a nation with a disquieting surplus of moral arbiters, why isn\'t there a call to clean up television programs that specialize in humiliating the weak? People devote untold hours to worrying about the sexual orientation of cartoon characters, but nobody seems disturbed that more than 30 million American households watch a "family" show that picks out hapless, and frequently helpless, contestants solely for famous and powerful judges to make fun of them on national television.'b'"American Idol" is known, even among those who have never seen it, as a talent show in which a dozen or so young pop singers compete to win a recording contract and a national profile. But it begins every season with several weeks of early elimination rounds in which judges pick the handful of contestants who will make it to the finals from a preselected mixture of very talented and very terrible singers. The very terrible have reason to hope that, having come so far, they might actually be as good as they imagined in their dreams.'b'Most of them are extremely young, na\xc3\xafve and deluded. Many appear terribly vulnerable and some seem to border on mentally impaired. The fun is supposed to come from seeing the celebrity judges roll their eyes, laugh, and tell them that they are tone-deaf, fat, funny-looking or, in the case of one young man, "atrocious" and "confused." (The cameras followed him out of the audition room, the better to make sport of him crying with his family.) The producers so treasured the comment of one judge, Simon Cowell, who said an overweight woman would require a bigger stage in Hollywood, that they used it to promote the segment.'b'In many ways, all this is just a much more expensive, glittery version of the old "Gong Show" from the 1970\'s. But the targets of that less hypersuccessful program were generally older and frequently more cynical. And, of course, the whole thing happened in a different era, when family values was not an overriding obsession.'b"No one wants to censor Fox's money machine, but it does seem peculiar that a nation so torn apart over what message gay marriage or prayer in school will send to impressionable youth is so unified in giving a pass to a program that teaches young people that it's extremely cool to be mean."b"Derailing Iran's drive to build nuclear weapons is too important a goal to let fantasies interfere. The point of the intricate diplomacy now getting under way is not to punish the Iranian people with sanctions or overthrow the Islamic republic but to terminate its nuclear enrichment programs before they reach the point where Iran can produce nuclear weapons."b'That is a goal that all five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council share, and one they have a chance to achieve if they take a sufficiently united and sufficiently tough stand. The next few weeks will determine whether unity can be preserved without sacrificing toughness.'b"The decisive factor will be how Russia plays its potentially pivotal hand. This is President Vladimir Putin's big chance to step up to the responsible international leadership role symbolized by his chairmanship, this year, of the developed world's Group of 8 leading industrial countries."b'The best remaining chance for a diplomatic solution would require Iran to halt its recently resumed uranium enrichment activities and agree to a Russian proposal that Washington accepts in principle but Tehran has previously rejected. Under this Russian formula, the crucial details of which still need to be nailed down, those uranium enrichment activities most critical to weapons production would be moved out of Iran and carried out on Russian soil and under close Russian supervision.'b'But there seems little chance that Iran will agree to this proposal unless it clearly understands that rejecting it will mean universal international ostracism. Iran moved as far as it has on nuclear weapons development by successfully dividing the countries that could and should be drawing and enforcing clear red lines. That division now needs to come to an end.'b'It will not be enough for Moscow to stand on the sidelines while Western countries play the bad cop with Tehran. Russia needs to play an active role in convincing Iran that it must step back from the brink and renounce its efforts to develop a fully independent nuclear enrichment cycle. Without such a cycle, Iran cannot proceed further toward building its own nuclear bombs.'b"The International Atomic Energy Agency's governing board meets early next month to consider sending the Iranian issue to the Security Council. That is where the matter now needs to go, after Tehran has ignored the agency's expressions of concern over its nuclear activities and provoked European negotiators by restarting its uranium enrichment activities. Moscow has indicated it will not block such a referral, but that is not enough."b"The United States and Europe are not asking the Security Council to impose economic sanctions now. What they want is a statement or resolution that backs up the I.A.E.A.'s authority and sends Iran a united message that its current course is dangerous and unacceptable. Iran will find it much harder to ignore that message if Russia, which has been its main nuclear technology partner in the past, actively supports both the referral and whatever kind of statement the council decides on."b'If China joined these actions as well, the chances of achieving a successful diplomatic resolution would be still greater. If Russia and China are the champions of multilateral nuclear diplomacy they have long claimed to be, now is the time to show it.'b"Madrid - FOR far too many years, almost 40, the people of Spain were treated like minors by Franco's dictatorship. But it seems that some people among us still yearn for that era. The new antismoking law in Spain, which went into effect with the new year and bans smoking in workplaces and restricts it in many bars and restaurants, is a case in point: it is a clear example of the state trying to regulate citizens' private lives and customs. As such, it is a measure that is far more befitting of Franco than a democracy."b"Now, I should say immediately that I am a smoker, like nearly a third of my fellow Spaniards, and I've never tried to quit. I know smoking isn't good for my health, but neither is walking in the polluted streets of Madrid or Barcelona, nor is living in a world where the United States refuses to sign on to the Kyoto Protocol."b"Many of my friends are smokers too; many are not. But we have always managed to come to terms by asking if anyone minds our smoking -- without the government's intervention."b'Of course, nonsmokers should not be subjected to secondhand smoke nor obliged to suffer its effects, and in this vein, limits should be placed on smokers in enclosed, common-use spaces. But the government\'s argument that it is seeking to improve public health is hypocritical. The Spanish Treasury takes in colossal revenues, direct and indirect, thanks to this pernicious habit. Every time the government needs to find a way to finance some exceptional expense, a new cigarette tax is levied. The implicit message to Spanish citizens is this: "Smoke! Smoke more -- so we can balance our budget."'b'Indeed, to escape the taint of hypocrisy, Spain would have to match its new antismoking measures with an array of others fighting everything else in the world that is at all harmful. Nowhere have I ever heard, for example, that cars are obliged to carry, just above the driver\'s-side door, a warning, like those on cigarette boxes, that "Driving a car may cause death, grisly amputations, quadriplegia and involuntary manslaughter."'b'I have also never seen anyone lay blame on sunbathers who go to the beach and almost drown, or mountain climbers who get lost and fall off cliffs, and whose rescue incurs a tremendous expense and endangers the lives of others. Nobody is forcing anyone to swim in the ocean or climb mountains, just as nobody is forcing smokers to smoke, and yet the latter are regarded practically as criminals.'b'People should be allowed to make decisions about their health as they see fit, even if that means undermining it. To keep someone from smoking on the job, if he or she has a private office where smoking does not endanger or annoy anyone, is an unacceptable act of paternalism.'b"As far as bars and restaurants are concerned, the ban is thankfully not absolute: in the end -- after tremendous protests and battles over the law, that is -- in establishments of less than 1,100 square feet (spaces that are too small to be divided into smoking and nonsmoking areas), the owner can decide if the place will be smoke-free or not. This way each citizen can decide whether or not to enter -- and I, for one, will not go to a restaurant where I can't smoke. So far, it seems that the majority of these smaller bars and restaurants will opt to allow their clients to blow as many smoke rings as they care to, for fear of losing them."b"Most probably, the Spanish people, rather civically minded in general, will not have too much trouble complying with the law, basically because it is only partly abusive and irrational. But watch out: the government is also trying to lower alcohol consumption and, in an unprecedented move, to alter the country's traditional schedule. People in Spain continue to eat lunch around 2:30, and to dine around 10 in the evening; we go to bed late. Efforts to make us more like the rest of the world in that regard strike a blow at the very essence of Spanishness: should our schedules change, we'll be much more like France or Switzerland -- and definitely more boring."b"A totalitarian state is one that sticks its nose where it doesn't belong and attempts to intervene in every aspect of its citizens' private lives, and many governments today, whether left, right or center, have developed this practice of behaving like busybodies. The old notion that only dictatorships can be totalitarian seems terribly na\xc3\xafve nowadays. And that is the worst thing about this antismoking law and others of the same ilk: they unfortunately prove that totalitarianism is no longer incompatible with the democratic systems that once guaranteed our freedoms."b'Op-Ed Contributor Javier Mar\xc3\xadas is the author, most recently, of "Your Face Tomorrow." This article was translated by Kristina Cordero from the Spanish.'b"New Haven - IT'S no longer just anti-abortion advocates who oppose Roe v. Wade. These days, Roe's traditional critics are joined by a surprising and increasing number of people who are pro-choice but willing -- in fact, eager -- to have the ruling overturned."b'In an October column titled "Support Choice, Not Roe," The Washington Post\'s Richard Cohen expressed his fatigue with "having to defend a Supreme Court decision whose reasoning has not held up." Similarly, Benjamin Wittes in The Atlantic Monthly and Eleanor Clift in Newsweek have argued that abortion-rights supporters should welcome (if not necessarily hasten) the end of Roe. The emergence of this pro-choice anti-Roe movement seems fueled by a hope that if it were left to the states, and not the Supreme Court, to set abortion policy, the result would be a more secure and less acrimonious compromise. But what would actually happen if Roe were overturned?'b"It's unlikely that Congress would pass a comprehensive federal ban on or right to abortion. So in the absence of Roe, states would largely be free to regulate the issue as they saw fit. Some states would permit abortion on demand, while some would ban it; many would fall somewhere in between. A patchwork of state abortion regulations, however, will lead not to compromise, but chaos."b"The common refrain in the anti-Roe pro-choice camp is that women in anti-abortion states will simply travel elsewhere to end their pregnancies. But it's unlikely that states with strict regulations on abortion would stand idle, and they will have many legal tools at their disposal."b"States could make it illegal to cross state lines in order to abort a fetus -- a tactic Ireland tried in the early 1990's, until a court decision and subsequent constitutional amendment recognized a right to travel. While the Supreme Court has recognized a constitutional right to travel across state lines, it has also recognized exceptions."b'If states can decree that life begins at conception, they might also be able to use child custody laws to curtail the movements of pregnant women. For example, many states are legally allowed to hold children in protective custody if there is reason to believe the parents will misbehave. Once Roe has been overturned, a state may be able to place unborn children into protective custody, forbidding their mothers to take them across state lines.'b"Furthermore, in recent decades, the Supreme Court has ruled that a state can regulate its citizens' activities while they are elsewhere and prosecute them for violations of state law upon their return. This so-called long-arm jurisdiction has been invoked to allow states to regulate Internet sites based beyond their borders, or to prosecute murders that followed interstate kidnappings. Anti-abortion states could forbid their residents to obtain or perform abortions, even while out of state. Would such measures be legal? The current law is unclear."b"Abortion-rights states would undoubtedly respond in kind. For example, Rhode Island, where 63 percent of residents favor abortion rights, has rebuffed efforts at regulation in the past. Just as Utah could make it a crime for a resident to go to Rhode Island for an abortion, Rhode Island could forbid Utah's law-enforcement officials from interfering with her decision to get one. Similarly, if an anti-abortion state places a fetus in protective custody, an abortion-rights state might do the same for the woman. And so on."b'Without Roe, the federal courts would be flooded with such disputes. Abortion cases, now further encumbered by issues of family rights and the powers of states to regulate trade across state lines, would once again end up before the Supreme Court. And though a doctrine called "conflict of laws" exists to settle legal disagreements between jurisdictions, this kind of interstate regulatory warfare has been mercifully rare in our nation\'s history. The precedents are muddy, the standards unclear, and so it is almost impossible to know how a future Supreme Court would resolve the matter.'b'Indeed, American democracy has rarely resolved moral battles of this scope at the state level. The most significant moral conflict ever devolved to the states, after all, was slavery. The problem of escaped slaves made it necessary to include a Fugitive Slave Clause in the Constitution, but it was impossible to contain the moral controversy within state borders. Disagreements over how to determine who was a fugitive slave, how to regulate slavery in the territories, and how to maintain the balance of power between South and North meant that slavery would inevitably become a federal issue. "A house divided" could not stand.'b'Overturning Roe and leaving the states to regulate abortion will not be the compromise that ends the debate. Rather, it will worsen it. Pro-choice and pro-life states will not enjoy an easy and untroubled coexistence, as some would like to believe. Nor will overturning Roe get the federal government, or the federal courts, out of the business of abortion jurisprudence. Instead, state regulation will make a complex legal matter even more complicated, and the divisions over abortion that much wider. If Roe is reversed, the ensuing chaos will demand a federal resolution to the abortion battle -- again.'b'Op-Ed Columnist William Baude is a second-year student at Yale Law School.'b"If Judge Samuel Alito Jr.'s confirmation hearings lacked drama, apart from his wife's bizarrely over-covered crying jag, it is because they confirmed the obvious. Judge Alito is exactly the kind of legal thinker President Bush wants on the Supreme Court. He has a radically broad view of the president's power, and a radically narrow view of Congress's power. He has long argued that the Constitution does not protect abortion rights. He wants to reduce the rights and liberties of ordinary Americans, and has a history of tilting the scales of justice against the little guy."b"As senators prepare to vote on the nomination, they should ask themselves only one question: will replacing Sandra Day O'Connor with Judge Alito be a step forward for the nation, or a step backward? Instead of Justice O'Connor's pragmatic centrism, which has kept American law on a steady and well-respected path, Judge Alito is likely to bring a movement conservative's approach to his role and to the Constitution."b'Judge Alito may be a fine man, but he is not the kind of justice the country needs right now. Senators from both parties should oppose his nomination.'b'It is likely that Judge Alito was chosen for his extreme views on presidential power. The Supreme Court, with Justice O\'Connor\'s support, has played a key role in standing up to the Bush administration\'s radical view of its power, notably that it can hold, indefinitely and without trial, anyone the president declares an "unlawful enemy combatant."'b'Judge Alito would no doubt try to change the court\'s approach. He has supported the fringe "unitary executive" theory, which would give the president greater power to detain Americans and would throw off the checks and balances built into the Constitution. He has also put forth the outlandish idea that if the president makes a statement when he signs a bill into law, a court interpreting the law should give his intent the same weight it gives to Congress\'s intent in writing and approving the law.'b"Judge Alito would also work to reduce Congress's power in other ways. In a troubling dissent, he argued that Congress exceeded its authority when it passed a law banning machine guns, and as a government lawyer he insisted Congress did not have the power to protect car buyers from falsified odometers."b'There is every reason to believe, based on his long paper trail and the evasive answers he gave at his hearings, that Judge Alito would quickly vote to overturn Roe v. Wade. So it is hard to see how Senators Lincoln Chaffee, Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, all Republicans, could square support for Judge Alito with their commitment to abortion rights.'b'Judge Alito has consistently shown a bias in favor of those in power over those who need the law to protect them. Women, racial minorities, the elderly and workers who come to court seeking justice should expect little sympathy. In the same flat bureaucratic tones he used at the hearings, he is likely to insist that the law can do nothing for them.'b'The White House has tried to create an air of inevitability around this nomination. But there is no reason to believe that Judge Alito is any more popular than the president who nominated him. Outside of a small but vocal group of hard-core conservatives, America has greeted the Alito nomination with a shrug -- and counted on senators to make the right decision.'b"The real risk for senators lies not in opposing Judge Alito, but in voting for him. If the far right takes over the Supreme Court, American law and life could change dramatically. If that happens, many senators who voted for Judge Alito will no doubt come to regret that they did not insist that Justice O'Connor's seat be filled with someone who shared her cautious, centrist approach to the law."b'Toronto - AN outsider watching the Canadian election today may be forgiven for wondering what the fuss is about. A centrist Liberal government is about to be replaced, if the polls are correct, by a centrist Conservative one. Like its predecessor, the new government will probably hold only a minority of the seats in Parliament, meaning it will have to work with the other parties to pass legislation. Small earthquake in Canada; not many hurt.'b"But beneath Canada's placid surface, the tectonic plates are shifting."b'Slowly, by stages, rather than suddenly and violently, the Western world\'s most enduring political dynasty is cracking up. The Liberal Party of Canada, it is often noted, held power for more years in the 20th century than the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It has governed Canada, with occasional Conservative interludes, more or less since the First World War. Not for nothing is the system sometimes called "one-and-a-half-party rule."'b'Since the election of 1993, especially, the Liberals have ruled all but unopposed, the opposition having fractured into several regionally based parties. But you know what they say about absolute power, and sure enough the Liberals were implicated in a series of scandals, including a huge kickback scheme in Quebec.'b'At the same time, the party was beset by internal divisions, culminating in the sitting prime minister, Jean Chr\xc3\xa9tien, being forced from office by his own party. His successor, Paul Martin, came to power with enormous expectations, owing to his success as finance minister in taming our national deficits.'b'Mr. Martin quickly fell short of the mark. In 2004, the once-invincible Liberals were reduced to a minority, thanks in part to the scandal in Quebec, in part to disappointment with Mr. Martin, and in part to the resurrection of a united Conservative opposition led by Stephen Harper.'b"A dour economist from Alberta, Mr. Harper is no one's idea of a natural politician. But he is blessed with both a first-rate mind for policy and a sure strategic sense. Though decidedly from the (libertarian) right of the party, Mr. Harper has learned to temper his ambitions to reshape Canada's federal system and rein in its sprawling government. It isn't that he has suddenly been transformed into a moderate, in the mold of the party's hapless past leaders, but he has been converted to incrementalism."b"Mr. Harper bet the election on this strategy. The Conservatives had been so far from power for so long, he calculated, that they had become an unknown quantity to many voters. Fear of the unknown was the Liberals' last remaining political weapon, their sole defense against widespread public fatigue with their government. Deny the Liberals that, and they would collapse."b"Whatever his ideological objectives, Mr. Harper has as his first goal to make his party into a permanent contender for power: to end one-and-a-half party rule, forever. That is a matter not only of building a lasting electoral coalition, but given Canada's peculiar political history, of reforming its institutions. Conservative predecessors had won smashing victories, only to be overwhelmed in office by the vested interests of Liberaldom."b'To avoid the same fate, Mr. Harper will have to confront the entrenched apparatus of Liberal rule, including the vast network of dependent client groups the party has cultivated over the years: big businesses, small businesses, activist groups, ethnic organizations, all on the federal dole and close to the ruling party.'b"He will also have to make reforms to Canada's outmoded democratic institutions, notably the appointed Senate, in which the Liberals, quelle surprise, hold a majority of the seats."b'Last, he will have to set aside some of his own privileges, placing limits on the powers of patronage with which prime ministers have consolidated their rule. The Conservatives must plan for when they are again out of power and remove the instruments by which they were kept out.'b'Previous Conservative prime ministers aspired only to run the Liberal machine for themselves, leaving the motor running for the Liberals when they returned. Mr. Harper wants to dismantle it, piece by piece.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Andrew Coyne is a columnist for The National Post.'b"During the War of 1812, an angry mob smashed the printing presses of a Baltimore newspaper that dared to come out against the war. When the mob surrounded the paper's editors, and the state militia refused to protect them, the journalists were taken to prison for their own protection. That night, the mob broke into the prison, killed one journalist and left the others for dead. When the mob leaders were brought before a jury, they were acquitted."b'Alexis de Tocqueville tells this chilling story in "Democracy in America," and warns that the greatest threat the United States faces is the tyranny of the majority, a phrase he is credited with coining. His account of his travels through America in the 1830\'s, which is often called the greatest book ever written about America, is both an appreciation of American democracy, and a cautionary tale about its fragility.'b'Bernard-Henri L\xc3\xa9vy, the well-known French intellectual, has just written "American Vertigo," about his own travels along Tocqueville\'s route. It is an entertaining trip, as much in the tradition of Jack Kerouac as Tocqueville. Mr. L\xc3\xa9vy visited Rikers Island and a Dallas gun show, and interviewed Americans ranging from Richard Perle to Sharon Stone. His outsider\'s perspective sometimes lends insight, as with his reflections on the sad plight of Detroit and Buffalo. At other times, it just leads to odd advice. (He puts surprising faith in Warren Beatty as a political leader.)'b'Unfortunately, Mr. L\xc3\xa9vy, who is most passionate about American foreign policy, pays little attention to the issue Tocqueville was most intent on: how closely even a thriving democracy like America borders on tyranny. It is a subject that is particularly relevant today, with the president claiming he can wiretap ordinary Americans without a warrant, insisting on his right to imprison without trial anyone he labels an "enemy combatant," and warning critics of the Iraq war against "emboldening" the enemy. Entertaining as Mr. L\xc3\xa9vy\'s book is, "Democracy in America" -- 170 years old, and notoriously difficult to distill -- still provides far greater insight into contemporary American democracy.'b'Tocqueville, who was born into the French aristocracy, was just 25 years old when he landed in Newport, R.I., in 1831 with the professed aim of studying the American penal system. In his travels, he visited prisons, but he also interviewed important personages, including President Andrew Jackson, former president John Quincy Adams and Supreme Court Justice Joseph Story.'b'The book Tocqueville produced -- a first volume published in 1835, and a more somber one five years later -- is full of keen observations about America. Many are highly quotable. ("There is hardly a political question in the United States which does not sooner or later turn into a judicial one.") Some are merely durably accurate. ("The most outstanding Americans are seldom summoned to public office.")'b'Tocqueville is hard to place on the modern political spectrum. He was raised in a royalist family that suffered mightily in the French Revolution: his grandfather and an aunt were guillotined, and his parents nearly suffered the same fate. He brought to his study of American democracy -- which he was transmitting back to Europe, where democracy was on the march -- the fear that democracy combined with a strong central power could lead to tyranny.'b'It was a very different America that Tocqueville was writing about in the Jacksonian Age, but the concerns he raised still resonate strongly. He worried that the state\'s power would end up concentrated in a single authority, until its citizens were "reduced to nothing better than a flock of timid and industrious animals, of which the government is the shepherd." He feared the majority would trample on minorities, like the mob that attacked the Baltimore editors, or the whites of Pennsylvania who intimidated blacks into not voting. And he was concerned about tyranny of opinion, saying he knew of no country with "less independence of mind and true freedom of discussion" than America.'b'Tocqueville pointed to some bulwarks against tyranny. He was a firm supporter of checks and balances. He believed in the power of American law to limit the excesses of the ruler -- the exact issue in today\'s debate over the warrantless wiretapping of American citizens. He had great hopes for the judiciary. "The courts correct the aberrations of democracy," he wrote, and "though they can never stop the movements of the majority, they do succeed in checking and directing them." Tocqueville would not be surprised that the Supreme Court has limited the Bush administration\'s excesses in the war on terror -- or that the administration has been eager to nominate justices with an expansive view of presidential power.'b'Tocqueville would not have been distracted by all the talk that warrantless wiretaps, indefinite detainment of enemy combatants and other civil liberties incursions are serving the cause of freedom. He understood that the newest incarnation of despotism was likely to be ushered in by the "avowed lover of liberty" who is a "hidden servant of tyranny."'b'Nor, though, would he be likely to despair. One reason "Democracy in America" has remained so popular is that despite his fears, Tocqueville remained nervously optimistic about democracy. He knew that the kind of equality that had taken hold in America could lead to tyranny, but he also believed that it gave people a "taste for free institutions," which would lead them to resist. Equality "insinuates deep into the heart and mind of every man some vague notion and some instinctive inclination toward political freedom," he insisted, "thereby preparing the antidote for the ill which it has produced."'b'In a city that has seen child abuse fatalities before, the death of Nixzmary Brown, just 7 years old, was a particularly horrifying one. She endured what may have been months of torture and starvation while in the care of her stepfather and mother, finally succumbing after a beating that police said was prompted by a missing container of yogurt. What raised the level of outrage was the disclosure that city workers inexplicably ignored or bungled opportunities to save her.'b"It's reassuring that Mayor Michael Bloomberg acknowledged the city's failures, and that child welfare workers and supervisors involved in the case have been suspended or reassigned. Some may lose their jobs. A larger investigation will take place and thousands of cases are being reviewed. The self-examination, though, cannot stop there."b"Within about two months of Nixzmary's death, three other children, also known to New York's department of child welfare, died in the care of their parents. All four lived in Brooklyn. Three -- including Nixzmary -- were handled by the Administration for Children's Services office in Bedford-Stuyvesant. One toddler drowned in a bathtub while his mother listened to music in the next room. Police say another child was fatally beaten by her father, and in another case a baby was reportedly squeezed until his ribs broke. It all recalls a time a decade ago when Elisa Izquierdo, a 6-year-old who had been repeatedly abused, was killed by her mother, and the city, in response to the outcry, created Children's Services."b"The public is always rightfully enraged when one of these awful deaths occurs because the government was indifferent to the needs of its most fragile citizens. But perhaps it is even worse -- certainly it is more frustrating -- when the city seems to have been trying hard to meet its obligations. Since the death of Elisa Izquierdo, New York has devoted an increasing amount of attention and money to protecting children at risk. The Bloomberg administration -- which has shielded Children's Services from budget cuts it demanded from other city agencies last fall -- says that caseworkers are not overburdened. Each handles a load of fewer than 12 cases at a time, the city says, well below a national standard of about 15."b"Some employees at Children's Services point to the city's very strong policy of trying to keep even very troubled families intact as a source of tension. The idea that even parents who are potential abusers may be allowed to keep their children is troubling, except to those who remember the many ruined lives that emerged from the foster care system back when city workers were urged to remove children from any doubtful home. Perhaps the balance needs to be readjusted, but there are no perfect solutions when it comes to this kind of choice."b"However hard New York has tried, the very fact that City Hall has announced it will be hiring 525 additional child-protection workers suggests more can be done. And while Children's Services was progressing, the improvement seemed to bypass the office in Bedford-Stuyvesant. That is an old story: a troubled corner of an agency with a high-stress mission, a place where bad workers are dumped while most good employees flee as soon as possible. And the last chapter is almost always a terrible one."b'Newport, R.I. - THE persistence of the insurgency in Iraq has divided America in a way not seen since Vietnam. Now the blame game among the principals has begun. The former presidential envoy to Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III, has written in his new memoir that he informed President Bush that the military did not have "a strategy to win."'b'Quite. The lesson the Pentagon should learn from Iraq is to avoid another L. Paul Bremer. This is less a reflection on Mr. Bremer, who accurately described himself as "the American viceroy" in Iraq and "the president\'s man," than on the position he and the American military commanders in Iraq were placed in by the White House\'s failure to put one person in charge.'b"In 1967, when confusion among military and civilian officials in Vietnam was undermining the war effort, President Lyndon B. Johnson placed all civilian reconstruction and security functions under the top general, William Westmoreland, insuring unity of command under Westmoreland's successor Creighton Abrams. Confronting similar confusion in Iraq, President Bush unfortunately assigned to the military the responsibility for security but gave Mr. Bremer the authority to shape, recruit, train and finance the Iraqi military and police."b'Mr. Bremer writes that he believed the Iraqi military should not "have internal security duties" and that the police should be trained by American civilians. But not enough civilians ever arrived to do the job. Mr. Bremer was unable to design a strategy for building up the Iraqi military and police. This failure extended the period in which the American military had to do the fighting while also taking over the training of both Mr. Bremer\'s new army and the police.'b'This disunity of command reached its tragic apex in the spring of 2004, during what Mr. Bremer calls "the most critical crisis of the occupation." When four American contractors were killed and their bodies mutilated in Falluja on March 31, Mr. Bremer joined with Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Gen. John Abizaid, the commander of American forces, in ordering the fractious city seized.'b'Five days later, however, Mr. Bremer changed his mind after Sunni members of the Iraqi Governing Council threatened to quit in protest. He prevailed on General Abizaid to order the Marine battalions that were advancing through Falluja to halt. Mr. Bremer acknowledged that this "temporary cessation of offensive action" would be "rough on the military."'b'Secretary Rumsfeld, for his part, disagreed with the halt and urged General Abizaid to finish the attack. But as the military prepared to end things quickly, Mr. Bremer changed his mind about the "temporary" cessation. He told President Bush that the assault would "collapse the entire political process"; the president sided with his viceroy and told General Abizaid "to let the political situation there develop."'b"Develop it did. The insurgents' morale soared and their defenses toughened. According to Pentagon reports, 21 marines were killed around the city in April, and 25 were killed over the next six months as Falluja degenerated into Taliban-style rule and became the lair of the terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. And then 70 American soldiers and marines were killed in the main assault on Falluja that eventually took place in November. The cost of dithering: 116 American lives. Because of the stop-and-start decision-making, Falluja developed into the fiercest battle yet of the Iraqi war."b'The lines of authority, responsibility and communications to the president were fatally tangled. The establishment of two independent chains of command in the midst of war guaranteed error and human loss. The result was indeed "rough on the military." Ask the soldiers and marines who fought at Falluja.'b'The singular lesson in war is to put either the civilian viceroy or (better) the general in charge, but not both.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Bing West, an assistant secretary of defense in the Reagan administration, is the author of "No True Glory: A Frontline Account of the Battle for Falluja."'b"WASHINGTON - AS the United States and its European partners consider their next steps to contain the Iranian nuclear threat, let's recall how poorly the Bush administration has handled this issue. During its five years in office, the administration has turned away from every opportunity to put relations with Iran on a more positive trajectory. Three examples stand out."b'In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, Tehran offered to help Washington overthrow the Taliban and establish a new political order in Afghanistan. But in his 2002 State of the Union address, President Bush announced that Iran was part of an "axis of evil," thereby scuttling any possibility of leveraging tactical cooperation over Afghanistan into a strategic opening.'b"In the spring of 2003, shortly before I left government, the Iranian Foreign Ministry sent Washington a detailed proposal for comprehensive negotiations to resolve bilateral differences. The document acknowledged that Iran would have to address concerns about its weapons programs and support for anti-Israeli terrorist organizations. It was presented as having support from all major players in Iran's power structure, including the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. A conversation I had shortly after leaving the government with a senior conservative Iranian official strongly suggested that this was the case. Unfortunately, the administration's response was to complain that the Swiss diplomats who passed the document from Tehran to Washington were out of line."b'Finally, in October 2003, the Europeans got Iran to agree to suspend enrichment in order to pursue talks that might lead to an economic, nuclear and strategic deal. But the Bush administration refused to join the European initiative, ensuring that the talks failed.'b'Now Washington and its allies are faced with two unattractive options for dealing with the Iranian nuclear issue. They can refer the issue to the Security Council, but, at a time of tight energy markets, no one is interested in restricting Iranian oil sales. Other measures under discussion -- travel restrictions on Iranian officials, for example -- are likely to be imposed only ad hoc, with Russia and China as probable holdouts. They are in any case unlikely to sway Iranian decision-making, because unlike his predecessor, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad disdains being feted in European capitals.'b"Alternatively, the United States (or Israel) could strike militarily at Iran's nuclear installations. But these are spread across Iran, and planners may not know all of the targets that would need to be hit. Moreover, a strike could prove counterproductive by hardening Iranian resolve to acquire a nuclear weapons capacity."b"Is there a way out of this strategic dead end? Nuclear diplomacy with Iran, never an easy proposition, has been made harder not only by poor policy choices in Washington, but also by trends in Iranian politics. Mr. Ahmadinejad's electoral victory last year against former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani suggests that a significant number of Iranians linked Mr. Rafsanjani's call for rapprochement with the West with his corrupt past and rejected both in favor of Mr. Ahmadinejad's populist nationalism. Moreover, Mr. Ahmadinejad's execrable rhetoric about Israel and the Holocaust threatens to make future Western engagement look like appeasement."b'These developments have severely circumscribed the possibilities for diplomacy between the United States and Iran. Iranian officials with ties to the Ayatollah Khamenei continue to stress in private conversations that key players on Iran\'s National Security Council -- the chief decision-making body for foreign policy -- remain interested in a strategic dialogue with Washington. But the popularly elected President Ahmadinejad could easily marshal resistance to any "grand bargain" with the United States. And absent a more positive strategic context, efforts to reopen discussions on a discrete issue of mutual interest, like Iraq, would at best only reprise the experience of short-lived tactical cooperation over Afghanistan.'b'Last week, the Saudi foreign minister, Saud al-Faisal, suggested a way out of this impasse -- one that might also help address other pressing challenges in the Persian Gulf. The Saudi prince noted that if Iranian nuclear weapons were deployed against Israel, they would kill Palestinians, and if they missed Israel, they would hit Arab countries. And so he urged Iran "to accept the position that we have taken to make the Gulf, as part of the Middle East, nuclear free and free of weapons of mass destruction."'b"While Prince Saud blamed Israel for starting a nuclear arms race in the Middle East, his implication that a nuclear-weapons-free Gulf might precede a regionwide nuclear-weapons-free zone is a nuanced departure from longstanding Arab insistence that regional arms control cannot begin without Israel's denuclearization. The United States and its partners should build on this idea and support the creation of a Gulf Security Council that would include Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and the other Arab states in the Gulf, as well as the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council."b"The Gulf Security Council would not replace American alliances with traditional security partners, but it would operate alongside them, much as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has operated alongside NATO. The council would provide a framework under which the United States could guarantee that it would not use force to change Iran's borders or form of government, provided that Iran committed itself to regionally defined and monitored norms for nonproliferation (including a nuclear weapons ban), counterterrorism and human rights. States concerned about Iran's nuclear activities would then have new leverage to ensure Iranian compliance with these commitments. Additionally, pressing Iran to abide by standards defined and administered multilaterally might be more acceptable to China and Russia than pushing Iran to accept an American reinterpretation of its nonproliferation obligations."b'Such a framework would leapfrog over proposals for establishing a "contact group" of Iraq\'s neighbors and offer all parts of the Iranian political spectrum -- even the hard-liners around Mr. Ahmadinejad -- something they want: recognition of Iran\'s leading regional role. Besides rejuvenating efforts to contain the Iranian nuclear threat, it could provide essential support for stabilization in Iraq, as the inclusion of Iran and Saudi Arabia would bring together the two states that could be most useful in brokering compromises between Shiite and Sunni communities there.'b'A diplomatic resolution of the Iranian nuclear problem is still within reach. But successful diplomacy will require a bold new vision. The next time the five permanent members of the Security Council convene to discuss Iran, perhaps they should meet in Riyadh rather than London.'b"Op-Ed Contributor Flynt Leverett, a former senior director for Middle East affairs at the National Security Council, is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy. He is writing a book about the future of Saudi Arabia."b'There are times when residents of New York can only look to the State Capitol in Albany and ask, What in tarnation are those people doing? Here we are, more than five years after the disastrous presidential vote in 2000 prompted Congress to pass the Help America Vote Act. That powerful law provides each state with lots of money to revamp its old voting systems. And so far, every state except New York has gotten the job started.'b'New York is so far behind the rest of the country that the Justice Department has threatened to sue, and that could cost New York some of the $2.3 billion in federal funds for fixing the voting system.'b"First, blame the lawmakers: Gov. George Pataki, State Senator Joseph Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. Instead of passing legislation in 2004, they finally agreed on a middling package last June. That was excruciatingly late to get new voting systems in place by this year's elections."b"Dawdling, of course, has always been one of the Legislature's strong suits. But it is not hard to imagine how lobbyists, smelling this huge vat of money, have been driving things. The salespeople are pushing for equipment that can be too expensive and not secure enough. What every New York voter needs is what every other American voter needs -- a verifiable paper record. But agents for voting machine companies have been trying to convince state leaders that they cannot deliver those machines, at least not quickly."b'The most promising solution is to use a system that is available, works well and provides paper for recounting, which is required so often in this state. That is the optical scanning machine, which is cheaper than other electronic machines. Most companies make them, even though some try to keep that hidden, probably so they can sell more expensive machines.'b"The state needs to end this embarrassing delay, and the state's lawmakers should make certain that they are serving voters, not vendors and their powerful lobbyists. The Board of Elections needs to set guidelines that require systems that are secure and controlled by the state. And any New Yorkers with clout in Washington -- like Governor Pataki, Senators Charles Schumer and Hillary Clinton, and Mayor Michael Bloomberg -- need to start pleading with the Justice Department to give New York time to get it right."b'We know that American high-tech companies often look abroad for workers who are cheaper. But the situation gets much more dire if they say they need to go overseas just to find employees who are skilled in math and science. The scope of this problem is made clear in an alarming report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm," from the National Academies, the country\'s leading advisory group on science and technology. It decries the dismal state of math and science education and calls for an ambitious national program that would retrain the current teacher core, while attracting 10,000 new math and science teachers into the profession every year for the foreseeable future.'b"Congress is considering proposals that would offer substantial scholarships to math and science majors who enter teaching, as well as to low-income college freshmen from high schools that offer appropriately rigorous curriculums. Although it's far from clear how the program would work, it might be a good way to pressure the states that have thus far ignored education reform for the upper grades."b'But, commendable as this impulse is, it hardly addresses the central problem of teacher preparation. Many education colleges have become diploma mills where the curriculum has little or nothing to do with the employment needs of the public schools in the state. Thanks to poor planning -- or no planning -- they place no particular emphasis on training teachers who actually major in subject areas like math and science. The data suggests that more than 60 percent of the public school students in some areas of math and science learn from teachers who have not majored in the subject taught or have no certification in it.'b'The No Child Left Behind Act, which was passed four years ago, was supposed to take care of this problem by requiring the states to improve teachers\' training and to make sure that all teachers were "highly qualified" by the end of this school year. Instead, the federal government has allowed the states to simply define the problem away -- by relabeling the same old teaching force as "highly qualified." States aren\'t even required to report on how many teachers have actually majored in the subjects they teach.'b"It will be impossible to improve math and science education until we assess teachers' preparedness based on the same high standards in all parts of the country. Teachers must gradually be held accountable for majoring in the areas they teach, especially when the areas are math and science, and for demonstrating that they have mastered those subjects by passing rigorous tests. Even Bush administration insiders realize that Washington has dropped the ball on this issue. While the latest round of proposed reforms is welcome, it will have little effect without skilled, well-educated teachers."b"With its bonds downgraded to junk and its market share on the ropes, Detroit's auto industry almost looks to be in a free fall. Ford Motor Company's announcement yesterday that after three straight quarters of North American losses, it will close as many as 14 factories and eliminate up to 30,000 jobs by 2012 is another sign of dark days in the Motor City. What's really sad is that Ford is in such bad shape that few people think the restructuring and job cuts are too aggressive, even though they were larger than many auto industry analysts had been expecting."b"That's not all that surprising when you consider that earlier this month, the Chinese automaker Geely did something no Chinese company had ever done. At Detroit's auto show, it unveiled a Chinese car that Geely plans to upgrade and sell in the United States in 2008. The price for what could be China's first foray into America's overheated love affair with cars: around $10,000."b'The American auto industry is used to getting its head handed to it on a silver platter by Toyota and the Japanese. Judging from the reaction to Geely at the auto show, American automakers may soon be adding the Chinese to their list of global competitors. One DaimlerChrysler employee, checking out Geely\'s 7151 CK model, which seats five and is about the size of a Honda Civic, told the Voice of America: "If I didn\'t work for DaimlerChrysler, I would consider it as one of my buying options." Ouch.'b"The United Automobile Workers union was absolutely right to say, as it did yesterday, that Ford would be better off trying to design more appealing cars and trucks. The reality is that all the job cuts in the world won't help if Ford, and General Motors, for that matter, continue to shy away from offering more Americans many more cars that can run on fuels other than gasoline. With the global oil market operating at close to zero excess capacity, oil prices are not coming down anytime soon. To handle that, the auto bigwigs in Detroit should, for starters, be making sure that every new car they roll out is a flexible-fuel car."b'Beyond that, Ford should be putting more into developing plug-in hybrid vehicles, which can be plugged into the electricity grid, and a lot less into gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. Company officials are talking about developing a new small car, along the lines of the ubiquitous SmartCars prevalent on European roads. That\'s good, but it would behoove Ford to make sure that it doesn\'t lose sight of the larger issue. "Oil prices are not going down -- they\'re going up," said Gal Luft, executive director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, based in Washington. "And if you don\'t have a car that can deal with that, you\'re dead."'b"It is a basic principle of democracy that army officers do not publicly challenge the legitimacy of elected governments or talk about marching their troops into the capital to overturn decisions of Parliament. Yet that is just what has happened twice this month in Spain, a country whose 20th-century history compels it to take such threats seriously, even when the chances of insubordinate words' leading to insubordinate actions seems quite unlikely."b'The response of the center-left government of Prime Minister Jos\xc3\xa9 Luis Rodr\xc3\xadguez Zapatero has been appropriately firm, including the dismissal and arrest of one of the culprits, a senior army general. Regrettably, the center-right Popular Party, the main opposition group, seems more interested in making excuses for the officers than in defending the democratic order in which it has a vital stake.'b"Spain's swift and smooth passage to modern democracy after the death of Francisco Franco in 1975 makes it easy to forget the horrors of the civil war and the brutal dictatorship that preceded it. Those nightmares began when right-wing army officers rebelled against an elected left-wing government they considered to be illegitimate and too deferential to regional separatists."b'Spanish society, Spanish politicians and, for the most part, Spanish military officers have come a long way from that era, moderating their views and deepening their commitment to democratic give-and-take. But the Popular Party has had a hard time getting over its electoral defeat nearly two years ago, days after the terrorist bombings of commuter trains in Madrid. It has never really accepted the democratic legitimacy of that vote. It is time for the Popular Party to move ahead. Spanish democracy needs and deserves vigorous bipartisan support.'b'Never mind the golf junkets and poolside seminars. One of the rawest displays of lobbyists\' power in the Capitol occurred beyond the sight of the public last month, when Republican Congressional negotiators tweaked a budget-cutting bill in order to provide the health insurance industry with a $22 billion windfall. The circumstance of this victory by insurance lobbyists is particularly relevant now that the same Congressional leaders are feverishly vowing to enact lobbying reform. The bill change, dearly sought by the H.M.O. industry, was written by House and Senate lawmakers and staff members in closed-door, Republican-only bargaining sessions -- one of the "conference committees" for settling differences in final legislation that are themselves becoming part of the Capitol\'s influence-peddling scandal.'b'The current version of this deal-setting routine entirely excludes Democratic lawmakers, who are in the minority but still represent significant numbers of Americans. Rather, the lobbyists who successfully worked for a whopping fix in the Medicare reimbursement formula were far more clued in by cooperative Republicans. This is business as usual in Congress; no one is promising hearings about secretive behavior, skulking about in a black hat or hiring defense lawyers.'b"The bill change might have gone unnoticed but for the fact that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office was doing its job in parsing out the last-minute gutting of a formula that was originally intended to produce a $26 billion savings for taxpayers across 10 years. Instead, the final bargainers reduced the projected savings to $4 billion and handed the H.M.O.'s a $22 billion gift by protecting the inflated reimbursements they currently reap through Medicare."b"Republican lawmakers insist that nothing nefarious was transacted, and that a minor formula change was grossly miscalculated in the budget office report. It's nice to see the lawmakers coming out of the shadows, if only to make excuses. But their credibility problem lies in the deep secrecy and partisanship that shroud the conference committees."b'If the tables were reversed, Democrats might indulge the same hegemony. But right now, some are proposing that the forthcoming attempt at lobbying reform include a rules change to at least open the conference committees to the public and allow minority party lawmakers votes in committee on the final wording of legislation. It remains to be seen whether such an advance in participatory democracy can survive the inevitable assault by dissatisfied lobbyists and their allied incumbents.'b'Just when the American public -- outraged by the growing lobbying scandals -- is calling for more regulation of money in politics, the Supreme Court has opened the door for a move in the other direction. Its brief 9-to-0 ruling this week is technical in nature, but carries the potential to undermine campaign finance reform.'b'The decision involves the McCain-Feingold reform law, which the court upheld in a landmark 2003 ruling. During the 2004 elections, Wisconsin Right to Life, an anti-abortion group, wanted to run television ads that put Senator Russell Feingold, a Democrat who was in a tough re-election fight, in a bad light.'b'The ads expressed concern about the use of filibusters to block judicial nominees, and urged viewers to tell Senator Feingold, and Wisconsin\'s other senator, to oppose filibusters. McCain-Feingold bans the use of corporate and special-interest group money for "electioneering communications," which it defines in part as ads that run within 60 days of a general election and mention a candidate by name. But Wisconsin Right to Life argued that its ads were grass-roots lobbying -- an attempt to change the process of judicial confirmation -- not an electioneering effort to defeat Senator Feingold. Therefore, the group said, the ads did not come under the law\'s limitations.'b'The lower court interpreted the Supreme Court\'s 2003 ruling to mean that all ads of this kind were restricted within the 60-day window, and that lower courts should not get involved in trying to separate acceptable ads from unacceptable ones. But the Supreme Court disagreed this week, saying that courts could hear "as applied" challenges like Wisconsin Right to Life\'s, and consider which ads were really no more than grass-roots lobbying.'b"There is nothing wrong with that in principle. But it is important that the courts develop a narrow and honest test for when advertisements are grass-roots lobbying. In this case, Wisconsin Right to Life was actively opposing Senator Feingold's re-election. It had supported candidates against him, and the ads it wanted to run right before his election were clearly intended to encourage people to vote against him. The claim that those ads were unrelated to opposing Senator Feingold's re-election is simply not credible."b'If the courts create a big "grass-roots lobbying" loophole, it will free corporations and special interests to run phony "issue ads" that are actually a form of unregulated campaign contribution. That is not what Congress wanted when it passed McCain-Feingold, and it is not what the public wants today.'b'If this case comes back to the Supreme Court, as seems likely, it will be an important test of the new Roberts court. At his confirmation hearings, Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. expressed his commitment to "judicial modesty" and his respect for precedent. It would not be judicially modest to tear a gaping hole in Congress\'s landmark campaign-finance statute, and it would not show respect for precedent to undo a key part of the landmark 2003 case that upheld the law\'s reasonable restrictions on money in politics.'b"Canadian voters have done the un-Canadian thing by electing a hard-edged Conservative, Stephen Harper, as their new prime minister. In the past, they have typically chosen leaders from the soft center-left or, less often, from the soft center-right. Mr. Harper's victory puts an end to more than 12 years of economically successful but scandal-marred Liberal Party governments."b'But with the Conservatives winning only a little more than 36 percent of the vote and obliged to govern in a coalition with more left-leaning partners, Mr. Harper will need to steer clear of radical policy changes, at least on domestic matters. His electoral platform pragmatically recognizes that by emphasizing cleaner government, lower taxes and increased child care subsidies for families with young children.'b"On foreign policy, where Canadian prime ministers have freer rein, Mr. Harper is likely to move quickly to cozy up to the Bush administration -- Canada's relationship with the United States has been distinctly chilly since the start of the Iraq war. But even here Mr. Harper will need to tread carefully because neither the war nor President Bush are very popular in Canada, and the Conservatives will be angling for a chance to win an outright majority by calling a new election sometime in the next few years."b"Mr. Harper's victory is nevertheless a historic breakthrough for his party, which was formed in 2003 by a merger of the old Progressive Conservatives, based in eastern Canada, and the American-style free-market social conservatives from the West. In contrast with the new party's initial unsuccessful run, in 2004, this election resulted in the party's doing well in every region of the country. That notably includes Quebec, long a stronghold of Liberals and separatists."b"The Conservatives' success was helped by voters' exhaustion with the divided and squabbling Liberals, with the unending series of slush-fund and inside-dealing scandals that have swirled around their rule for the past few years, and with the distinctly lackluster campaign skills of the outgoing prime minister, Paul Martin, who managed to be uncharismatic even by Canada's undemanding standards."b'But the victory belongs chiefly to Mr. Harper. We hope he puts it to good use.'b"WASHINGTON - REPUBLICAN senators have found a new friend during judicial confirmations: the American Bar Association. During the confirmation hearings of John G. Roberts Jr. and Samuel A. Alito Jr., the senators invoked A.B.A. evaluations to ward off Democratic attacks -- including in yesterday's vote by the Senate Judiciary Committee sending Judge Alito's nomination to the full Senate. But this tactic is shortsighted: what works now may make it difficult for Republicans to credibly reject A.B.A. ratings when they really matter."b'The bar association has liberal views on issues from abortion rights to gun control, but it has always claimed that a high wall separates its evaluations from its policy positions.'b'Yet the bar association\'s liberal bias on its evaluations is there for all to see. Academics rank the influence of judges by how frequently other federal judges cite their opinions. Among serving United States Court of Appeals jurists, the three outstanding judges are Richard A. Posner, Frank H. Easterbrook and J. Harvie Wilkinson III. By the citations yardstick, these three judges, especially Judge Posner and Judge Easterbrook, wield unrivaled influence. But all three were Reagan appointees, and when they were nominated, the A.B.A. gave them the lowest possible ratings, "qualified/not qualified." From Jimmy Carter through George W. Bush\'s first term, it rated 89 percent of Court of Appeals nominees more highly.'b"These cases, while extreme, were not unique. I recently completed a study of A.B.A. ratings, analyzing the 342 circuit court and 1,215 district court nominees from 1977 through 2004 to see whether A.B.A. ratings were politically biased after taking into account factors like nominees' schools; whether they served on law review; clerked for different courts; had already been judges; their race, gender and age; publications; and how many years and in what types of positions they served as lawyers. Surveys of lawyers who argued before the judges by The Almanac of the Federal Judiciary also allowed me to examine the relationship between A.B.A. ratings and professional competence, judicial temperament and political bias."b'While Democratic Court of Appeals nominees who were clerks on the Supreme Court had an average rating of slightly below "well qualified," similar Republican nominees were rated on average as only "qualified/well qualified." Likewise, of nominees who attended Top 10 law schools and served on their law reviews, Democrats had an average rating as "well qualified/qualified," but Republican nominees were only "qualified/well qualified." Overall, Republican nominees had lower ratings than the nominees of either President Carter or President Clinton.'b'Moreover, the A.B.A. rating system was a poor guide to how judges will do once they are on the bench. According to The Almanac of the Federal Judiciary\'s lawyer survey, judges who had "good" judicial temperament got lower A.B.A. ratings than judges whom lawyers rated as only "fair."'b"The A.B.A. didn't give all Republicans low ratings. They saved the lowest ratings for when there was a Republican president and a Democratic Senate, when the nominations were most likely to be contested."b"For the Supreme Court, a similar pattern exits. So in the cases of Judge Alito and Justice Roberts, the A.B.A. is staying true to form. There's no reason to give a low rating to a nominee when a Republican majority will pretty much assure his confirmation."b'But what will Senate Republicans say when Democrats use A.B.A. ratings against them?'b'Op-Ed Contributor John R. Lott Jr. is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and the author of the forthcoming "Confirmation Trials: Causes and Consequences of Judicial Selection Battles."'b'Reading about the latest tapes by Osama bin Laden and his sidekick Ayman al-Zawahiri, my gut reaction is that they sound like a couple of burned-out rock stars who keep recycling their greatest hits in hopes of catching on one last time as the lounge duo in some Las Vegas hotel. "Now Appearing at Caesars Palace, It\'s the Monkees! And at the Aladdin, Ayman and Osama!"'b"I will confess, though, that the fact that bin Laden could recommend a book in his latest video and then watch that book break into the top 10 on Amazon.com within just a few days suggests that while he may not have much of a future as a terrorist, he could do a book club gig. When I checked Amazon, two of the top 10 books were recommended by Oprah, and one was recommended by Osama. Now that's juice. I started to imagine bin Laden sitting in his cave in Pakistan and suddenly receiving all these books from publishers and agents."b'If I seem to be taking all this a tad lightly, it is because I am certain that bin Laden is hurting right now. What made bin Laden such a unique threat were three things: the fact that he had taken over a whole country, Afghanistan, where he could freely recruit and train forces and move around money; the fact that he controlled a political movement, the Taliban; and, most important, the fact that many Arabs and Muslims looked up to him and Al Qaeda as forces who were standing up to America.'b'But today bin Laden does not have Afghanistan, he does not have the Taliban, and while he still has some following, I don\'t think so many Arabs and Muslims are naming their sons "Osama" anymore.'b'Because anyone who has paid attention to recent events in Iraq, Indonesia, Sharm el Sheik, Afghanistan and Jordan knows that Al Qaeda has killed many more innocent Muslims than innocent Americans -- and not just Shiite Muslims. And it has killed them at marketplaces, mosques, weddings and funerals. Qaeda murders have also exacted a huge toll on tourism in places like Egypt and Indonesia, killing jobs as well.'b"The best indications of how much this has hurt bin Laden in the Arab-Muslim world are the recent attacks on Al Qaeda by important Islamist voices, including some leaders of the powerful Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. On Jan. 7, after Zawahiri lambasted Muslim Brothers as U.S. stooges for taking part in Egypt's parliamentary elections, A.F.P. reported the following from Cairo:"b'"Egypt\'s Muslim Brotherhood responded Saturday to Al Qaeda\'s accusations of complicity with Washington by charging that the Islamist violence advocated by Osama bin Laden\'s network was counterproductive." A Brotherhood spokesman, Issam al-Aryan, asked, "What results have his resort to violence yielded?"'b'Such open criticism "coming from the Muslim Brotherhood, which has a significant presence in Egypt and beyond, is quite telling," said Ibrahim Karawan, director of the Middle East Center at the University of Utah. "It shows that Al Qaeda\'s actions have cost them. They have created enemies in the West and in the Arab world." Indeed, Iraqi Sunni nationalists in Ramadi recently declared war on local Qaeda militants after bin Laden forces killed 80 people in Ramadi in an attack on police recruits on Jan. 5.'b'But while I am certain bin Laden is losing, I still don\'t feel that we are "winning," that we are really making progress in democratizing political life in the Arab-Muslim world. States and politics there are still dominated by military and intelligence services.'b"There is still no viable, free space for a vibrant civil society to emerge. Few independent political parties, newspapers or nongovernmental organizations have sprouted. Look at Egypt: President Hosni Mubarak holds elections, the Muslim Brotherhood wins a record number of seats, and the most liberal politician who dared to run against Mr. Mubarak gets thrown in jail. It's hard to call that progress."b'The other reason it is hard to feel that we are winning is that America, and particularly President Bush, are still radioactive -- widely disliked. Therefore, there are not a lot of Arab progressives who want to be seen publicly embracing Americans or their agenda.'b'Iraq and Afghanistan, I still hope, may turn out to be exceptions, but even if they are, it is hard to believe their example will spread at a time when oil is $67 a barrel. The military-intelligence systems that dominate political life in the Arab East are only growing richer, bigger and stronger -- thanks to petrodollars.'b'No, not much grows in a garden watered by oil.'b'IF Osama bin Laden\'s aim in releasing an audiotape was to gauge his enemies\' reaction, he must have been gratified to find that America\'s leaders and opinion-makers understand him little better than they did on 9/11. The proof is in how his offer of a "long-term truce" was treated. The White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, declared: "We do not negotiate with terrorists." Vice President Dick Cheney saw Mr. bin Laden\'s offer as "some kind of ploy." Newsweek described it as "something new: an offer of an olive branch." Most saw it as a sign of weakness.'b'Yet, while Osama bin Laden has seldom used the word "truce," the vision outlined in the rest of the message is not new: a withdrawal of the United States from Muslim lands and a rebalancing between the Muslim and non-Muslim worlds. (One Qaeda spokesman has insisted that only when America has lost four million people would the field be even.) In other words, this "truce" must be preceded by total capitulation.'b'The author of the 9/11 attacks did not, of course, think that his musings would jump-start a negotiation. Had Americans instead listened with the ears of those for whom the message was intended -- Muslims around the world -- they would have heard something very different. Instead of a weak Osama bin Laden, they would have heard a magnanimous one who could offer a truce because "the war in Iraq is raging, and the operations in Afghanistan are on the rise in our favor." Mr. bin Laden staked his claim to leadership of the Muslim world on 9/11, striking us as others only dreamed of doing. On the tape, he shows strength by taking credit for America\'s humiliation in Iraq and continues to do what we are not: fighting for the hearts and minds of the Muslim world.'b'It is too early to say how this tape will affect Muslim opinion, but there is no doubt that Mr. bin Laden\'s strategy has been paying off. According to a poll released last month by Shibley Telhami of the University of Maryland and Zogby International, when Muslims in several countries were asked what aspect of Al Qaeda they "sympathize" with most, 39 percent said it was because the group confronted the United States. Nearly 20 percent more sympathized because it "stands up for Muslim causes," which is really just a polite way of saying the same thing.'b'Two other phenomena also show the movement to be strengthening. The first is the emerging breed of self-starter terrorists with few or no ties to Osama bin Laden, like the Madrid and London bombers, and others who have been arrested before they were able to carry out attacks in Pakistan, Australia and elsewhere. The second is the emergence of an indigenous jihad in Iraq. Much is said about the foreign fighters in Iraq, but the truly dramatic development is the radicalization of Iraqis who will continue the insurgency or travel abroad to kill, like those who bombed three Western hotels in Jordan in November.'b'Despite so much evidence that the jihadists are winning sympathy, America has provided no counter-story to their narrative. Rather, the president has repeatedly objected to the notion that the Iraq war is having a radicalizing effect by arguing that America was attacked before we ever stepped foot in Iraq.'b'This, of course, is a non sequitur -- douse a guttering fire in gasoline and you will get a bigger fire. A movement that was staggering after the Taliban was toppled has come back with a vengeance. Realistically, we cannot deploy a counter-narrative -- one that emphasizes that we are a benign superpower -- so long as our troops are in Iraq. That will make it difficult to separate moderates from extremists, as an ideological struggle requires. We must focus more on developing that story and getting out of Iraq with the least damage to our interests and less on the phony truce offers of a guileful enemy.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Daniel Benjamin and Steven Simon are co-authors of "The Next Attack: The Failure of the War on Terror and a Strategy for Getting It Right."'b"Americans tend to think that the worst forms of institutional racism simply went away after Congress passed the landmark civil rights laws of the 1960's. But black police officers in Georgia who were denied membership in a supplementary retirement fund decades ago for reasons of race know better. Because of Jim Crow policies that barred them from the fund as shamefully late as the mid-1970's, many of these officers are facing troubled and underfunded retirements, with benefits substantially lower than those of their white colleagues."b'The Georgia Legislature inexplicably failed to help these officers when a bill came before it two years ago, but it has received a new bill and a fresh opportunity to show its commitment to simple justice. Under the current bill, being shepherded by State Representative Tyrone Brooks, the state would assume half of what it would cost hundreds of working black officers to buy retirement coverage for the years they were barred from the fund.'b'If the measure is passed, which seems likely, it will take care of only those police officers who are still on the job. Retired officers are left out in the cold by a provision of the State Constitution that prevents the Legislature from helping them. To help this group, the voters would have to ratify an amendment to the State Constitution, which would first have to clear a State Legislature that has not been exemplary when it comes to issues of racial fairness.'b'But Georgia should do whatever it takes to give justice to all of the people affected by this shameful episode. Beyond that, other Southern states with Jim Crow legacies should begin to prepare themselves to encounter similar issues. If this happened in Georgia, it almost certainly happened elsewhere.'b"The African Union did the right thing in rejecting Sudan's bid for the rotating presidency of the organization. Allowing President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan to become Africa's face to the world would have sent just about every wrong message imaginable. Mr. Bashir has presided over the genocide perpetrated by Sudanese solders and allied militias in Darfur since 2003. He's not exactly the person anyone would want in nominal command of the 7,000-strong African Union force that is trying to protect civilians in Darfur. His ascension would have mocked the group's declared goal of promoting democracy, human rights and development."b"The only question is why the African leaders in Khartoum for the sixth African Union summit meeting even wasted so much time on the issue, given the really pressing problems on their agenda. While the African Union usually passes the presidency on to the host of its regular summit meeting, the main purpose in founding the organization in 2002 was to avoid the pitfalls of its predecessor, the Organization of African Unity, which came to be derisively known as a dictators' club because of its consistent failure to sanction any member. The African Union, loosely modeled on the European Union, was meant to confront the continent's failings and problems head-on, and to find African solutions for them. So accepting Mr. Bashir's bid for the presidency would have been a serious blow to the union's credibility."b"Unfortunately, that credibility is still on probation. Though rebuffed for now, Mr. Bashir was promised the group's presidency in 2007, and for now the chair will go to the Congo Republic, hardly a model of human rights. Giving Sudan the African Union presidency next year will be just as unacceptable as it was this year."b"DURING my four years as the American ambassador to France, I discovered that no single issue was viewed with as much hostility as our support for the death penalty. Outlawed by every member of the European Union, the death penalty was, and is, viewed in Europe as a throwback to the Middle Ages. When we require European support on security issues -- Iran's nuclear program; the war in Iraq; North Korea's bomb; relations with China and Russia; the Middle East peace process -- our job is made more difficult by the intensity of popular opposition in Europe to our policy."b'Several years ago, Justice Anthony Kennedy spoke to the senior staff of our embassy in Paris on this issue to help them explain our position to a very hostile French audience. I was agreeably surprised when he indicated his belief that sooner or later, we would have to take into account the views of Europeans in determining what constitutes "cruel and unusual punishment."'b'Last March, the Supreme Court, in a 5 to 4 decision, abolished capital punishment for juvenile offenders, concluding that the death penalty for minors is indeed cruel and unusual punishment. "Our determination," Justice Kennedy wrote in the majority decision, "finds confirmation in the stark reality that the United States is the only country in the world that continues to give official sanction to the juvenile death penalty."'b'While, unsurprisingly, Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas dissented, it is notable that Justice Sandra Day O\'Connor agreed with Justice Kennedy that international trends affect the meaning of "cruel and unusual punishment." Justices Scalia and Thomas, on the other hand, took the majority to task for taking "guidance from the views of foreign courts and legislators."'b'This attitude, reflecting a narrow and parochial view of the issue, is also found in Judge Samuel Alito\'s testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on his nomination to the Supreme Court: "I don\'t think it appropriate or useful to look to foreign law in interpreting the provisions of our Constitution. I think the framers would be stunned by the idea that the Bill of Rights is to be interpreted by taking a poll of countries of the world."'b'To the contrary, globalization has made it not only "appropriate or useful" but vital to look at foreign laws. It is in our interest to be aware of their impact whether they concern antitrust, food safety or the death penalty. Contempt for the laws of our allies is a major factor in our increasing isolation in the world; our present posture in Iraq reflects that reality. That is why is it is deeply troubling that the next member of the Supreme Court will most likely share Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas\'s point of view.'b"The Supreme Court is our most respected institution. Whether it is conservative or liberal is important; but it is even more important that it be enlightened. It must show understanding, if not respect, for other peoples' beliefs and laws, and occasionally be willing to support reasonable changes. Our Constitution, itself, was an extension of Enlightenment ideas that were incubated on the Continent. It certainly did not spring up in a vacuum, but was affected by strains of political thinking in Europe."b'"That our understanding of the Constitution does change from time to time has been settled since John Marshall breathed life into its text," Justice John Paul Stevens wrote last year, concurring with Justice Kennedy. Taking the views of 450 million Europeans into account is not a sign of weakness on our part, nor is it a commitment to change our views. It is simply recognition that the laws of our most important allies, our biggest foreign investors, foreign employers, foreign customers and trading partners are worthy of our attention. That is a sign of enlightenment.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Felix G. Rohatyn was the United States ambassador to France from 1997 to 2001.'b'We should be used to it by now. There are a couple of Congressional committees trying to investigate the tragic Hurricane Katrina debacle, but the Bush administration is refusing to turn over certain documents or allow certain senior White House officials to testify before the committees under oath.'b'Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Democrat who is by no means unfriendly to the Bush crowd, said this week, "There has been a near-total lack of cooperation that has made it impossible, in my opinion, for us to do the thorough investigation that we have a responsibility to do."'b"Once again the president has, in effect, flipped the bird at Congress. He's amazing. Forget such fine points as the Constitution and the separation of powers. George W. Bush does what he wants to do. He won fewer votes than Al Gore in 2000 and then governed as if he'd been elected by acclamation. He dispensed with John Kerry in 2004 by portraying himself -- a man who ran and hid from the draft during Vietnam -- as more of a warrior than Mr. Kerry, a decorated combat veteran of that war."b"Reality has been dealt a stunning blow by Mr. Bush. The administration's high-handedness with the Katrina investigators comes at the same time as disclosures showing that the White House was warned in the hours just before the hurricane hit New Orleans that it might well cause catastrophic flooding and the breaching of the city's levees."b'That was early on the morning of last Aug. 29. On Sept. 1, with the city all but completely underwater, the president went on television and blithely declared, "I don\'t think anyone anticipated the breach of the levees."'b'This guy is something. Remember his "Top Gun" moment aboard the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln? And his famous taunt -- "Bring \'em on" -- to the insurgents in Iraq? His breathtaking arrogance is exceeded only by his incompetence. And that\'s the real problem. That\'s where you\'ll find the mind-boggling destructiveness of this regime, in its incompetence.'b"Fantasy may be in fashion. Reality may have been shoved into the shadows on Mr. Bush's watch. But the plain truth is that he is the worst president in memory, and one of the worst of all time. Many thousands of people -- men, women and children -- have died unnecessarily (and thousands more are suffering) because of his misguided and mishandled policies."b'Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser for George H. W. Bush, counseled against the occupation of Iraq at the end of the first gulf war. As recounted in a New Yorker article last fall, he said, "At the minimum, we\'d be an occupier in a hostile land. Our forces would be sniped at by guerrillas, and, once we were there, how would we get out?"'b'George W. Bush had no such concerns. In fact, he joked about his failure to find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Like a frat boy making cracks about a bad bet on a football game, Mr. Bush displayed what he felt was a hilarious set of photos during a spoof that he performed at the annual dinner of the Radio and Television Correspondents Association in March 2004.'b'The photos showed the president peering behind curtains and looking under furniture in the Oval Office for the missing weapons. Mr. Bush offered mock captions for the photos, saying, "Those weapons of mass destruction have got to be somewhere." And, "Nope, no weapons over there, maybe under here."'b"This week, as the killing of American G.I.'s and innocent Iraqis continued, we learned from a draft report from the office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction that, like the war itself, the Bush plan for rebuilding Iraq has been crippled by incompetence and extreme shortages of personnel. I doubt that this will bother the president any more than any of his other failures. He seems to truly believe that he can do no wrong."b"The fiasco in Iraq and the president's response to the Hurricane Katrina catastrophe were Mr. Bush's two most spectacular foul-ups. There have been many others. The president's new Medicare prescription drug program has been a monumental embarrassment, leaving some of the most vulnerable members of our society without essential medication. Prominent members of the president's own party are balking at the heavy hand of his No Child Left Behind law, which was supposed to radically upgrade the quality of public education."b"The Constitution? Civil liberties? Don't ask."b'Just keep in mind, whatever your political beliefs, that incompetence in high places can have devastating consequences.'b"A couple of years ago, nothing seemed less likely than the sale of Pixar to the Walt Disney Company. At the time, it looked as if the two companies wouldn't even be able to agree on the terms of their distribution deal, which gave Disney, then run by Michael Eisner, an unfair stake in Pixar's films, according to Pixar's chief executive, Steven Jobs. Now Mr. Eisner is gone, and on Tuesday Disney's board approved an offer of $7.4 billion, about $59 a share, to acquire Pixar, whose major shareholder is Mr. Jobs. The deal now goes to the Pixar board."b"A company like that -- and a figure like Mr. Jobs, notable for his dynamic role at both Apple and Pixar -- doesn't let itself be bought for money alone, though the money is certainly enticing enough. This is really an opportunity to infect, and change, the creative culture of Disney, which, back in its founder's day, used to be one of the most creative places around."b"Steven Jobs will take a seat on Disney's board, and John Lasseter, who is the chief creative officer at Pixar and a former Disney animator, will probably take over as head of animation at Disney. Disney's animated films have been nothing to shout about in the past decade or so, while Pixar, driven by extraordinary shifts in computer technology, has produced one imaginative and highly profitable hit after another."b"On the surface, this looks like the joining of two companies whose shared mission is to produce cultural content. But Mr. Jobs's other company -- Apple -- has helped create, with its video iPods, a revolution in the way cultural content is distributed. For Pixar and Apple, there is only an upside in this deal. The same is true for Disney, especially if it keeps shedding the ways of Mr. Eisner's old company and allows itself to become what may turn out to be, in the end, Mr. Jobs's company after all."b'Astoria, Ore. - AS the words scroll across a darkened TV screen, we hear an authoritative voice announce that every year an alarming number of people in this country "are wrongfully convicted." Millions of Americans who watched these promotions in recent weeks knew they were pitches for the new ABC television drama "In Justice." But if they\'d been listening from the next room, they might easily have thought from the somber tone that it was a tease for the nightly news or "20/20."'b'"In Justice" has received dismal reviews. But that hasn\'t stopped its premise from permeating the conventional wisdom: that our prisons are chock-full of doe-eyed innocents who have been framed by venal prosecutors and corrupt police officers with the help of grossly incompetent public defenders. It is a misconception that has run through our popular culture from "Perry Mason" to the novels of Scott Turow to the recent hit play "The Exonerated."'b"It was also seen on the front pages in recent weeks, in reporting about Roger Coleman, who was executed in Virginia in 1992 for rape and murder. DNA testing at the time had placed him within one-fifth of a percent of possible suspects, leading to widespread claims that he was innocent. The governor, L. Douglas Wilder, said he would consider commuting Mr. Coleman's sentence if he passed a lie detector test. He failed and was executed."b"For more than a decade opponents of the death penalty have held up the Coleman case as the example that would prove that America executed an innocent man. Yet on Jan. 12 the Canadian laboratory that had been sent the last remaining DNA sample in the case announced the results of more advanced testing: it put the odds of Mr. Coleman not being the killer at less than 1 in 19 million. Still, while Mr. Coleman's face graced the cover of Time magazine at the height of the controversy, it is unlikely you will see him on the cover again marking his rightful conviction."b'Americans love the underdog. Thousands of law students aspire to be Atticus Finch, the famous fictional lawyer from "To Kill A Mockingbird." But this can go too far: one of the jurors who acquitted the actor Robert Blake of murder last year cited the TV program "CSI" as the basis of her knowledge of what good police work should be. And if we take a deep breath and examine the state of American justice, a very different picture will emerge.'b'To start, only 14 Americans who were once on death row have been exonerated by DNA evidence alone. The hordes of Americans wrongfully convicted exist primarily on Planet Hollywood. In the Winter 2005 Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, a group led by Samuel Gross, a law professor at the University of Michigan, published an exhaustive study of exonerations around the country from 1989 to 2003 in cases ranging from robbery to capital murder. They were able to document only 340 inmates who were eventually freed. (They counted cases where defendants were retried after an initial conviction and subsequently found not guilty as "exonerations.") Yet, despite the relatively small number his research came up with, Mr. Gross says he is certain that far more innocents languish undiscovered in prison.'b"So, let's give the professor the benefit of the doubt: let's assume that he understated the number of innocents by roughly a factor of 10, that instead of 340 there were 4,000 people in prison who weren't involved in the crime in any way. During that same 15 years, there were more than 15 million felony convictions across the country. That would make the error rate .027 percent -- or, to put it another way, a success rate of 99.973 percent."b"Most industries would like to claim such a record of efficiency. And while, of course, people's lives are far more important than widgets, we have an entire appeals court system intended to intervene in those few cases where the innocent are in jeopardy."b'It is understandable that journalists focus on the rare case in which an innocent man or woman is sent to prison -- because, as all reporters know, how many planes landed safely today has never been news. The larger issue is whether those who influence the culture, like an enormous television network, have a moral responsibility to keep the facts straight regardless of their thirst for drama. "In Justice" may soon find itself on the canceled list, but several million people will still have watched it, and they are likely to have the impression that wrongfully convicted death row inmates are the virtual rule.'b'The words "innocent" and "exonerated" carry tremendous emotional and political weight. But these terms have been tortured beyond recognition -- not just by defense lawyers, but by the disseminators of entertainment under the guise of social conscience.'b'"The Exonerated" played for several years Off Broadway with a Who\'s Who of stage and screen stars portraying six supposedly innocent people who were once on death row. The play, originally subsidized by George Soros, the liberal billionaire philanthropist, now tours college campuses and was made into a television movie by Court TV.'b"The script never mentions that two of the play's six characters (Sonia Jacobs and Kerry Cook) were not exonerated, but were let out of prison after a combined 36 years behind bars when they agreed to plea bargains. A third (Robert Hayes) was unavailable to do publicity tours because he is in prison, having pleaded guilty to another homicide almost identical to the one of which he was acquitted."b'American justice is a work in progress, and those of us charged with administering it are well aware that it needs constant improvement. But nothing is gained by deluding the public into believing that the police and prosecutors are trying to send innocent people to prison. Any experienced defense lawyer will concede that he would starve if he accepted only "innocent" clients. Americans should be far more worried about the wrongfully freed than the wrongfully convicted.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Joshua Marquis is the district attorney of Clatsop County in Oregon and a vice president of the National District Attorneys Association.'b"Before Angie and Brad, before Monica and Bill, there was Amy and Joey. Amy Fisher and Joey Buttafuoco -- the Long Island Lolita and her body-shop lover -- with Joey's wife, Mary Jo, formed a triangle of passion, obsession and violence that became the industry standard for tabloid crime way, way back in 1992."b'There is an entire generation, or at least a cohort, or maybe a handful, or at least one or two journalists who remember working on that day in May when the story broke, and who still marvel at how that strange crime -- a housewife in a swanky suburb shot in the face -- soon became much stranger. It swelled in significance until it made headlines coast to coast and around the globe.'b'The South Shore of Long Island was something then. Nobody could touch Long Island for tabloid crime in those days, and people were raised right -- they paid attention. The Amy and Joey story spawned not just one made-for-TV movie but three, among them vehicles for Alyssa Milano and Drew Barrymore. It put Massapequa on the map.'b'Back then, a nobody starting out with nothing -- just a mighty helmet of hair, a pair of snakeskin boots and a statutory rape conviction -- could dream of one day making it big in Hollywood. And make it Joey sorta did, taking bit parts in movies like "Mafia Movie Madness" and, lately, selling protein shakes on the set of "Desperate Housewives." He seems incapable of parlaying his fame into lasting fortune, though, possibly because of problems involving insurance fraud, probation violations and ammunition possession, possibly because he is a skeevy knucklehead.'b'Amy Fisher always seemed to be the smart one in this dense equation. She left prison, wrote a book and found a respectable position as a columnist for The Long Island Press. She left that job recently, but not before impressing many people with her articulate voice and winning a journalism award.'b'Poor Mary Jo, who miraculously survived the shooting despite serious injuries, forgave both Amy and Joey, and moved out to California with him. They divorced in 2003.'b'I miss the Buttafuoco era. Joey and Amy were the Sid Caesar and Howdy Doody of reality TV, relics of a simpler time when crime sold newspapers -- imagine that -- and when the culture tended to look down on adultery and teenage prostitutes, and when attempted murder carried a hint of shame, which presumably was why Amy, in her perp walk, went to the trouble of hiding her face with her long brown hair.'b'We learned this week in The New York Post that Amy, Joey and Mary Jo had agreed to be reunited for a TV show. That promises to be a complete waste of time, although the guy trying to sell the idea says there will be shocking revelations.'b'It is hard to imagine what those may be, or that a revival of this Long Island melodrama -- even with its original cast -- can regain even a fraction of its former glory. But you never know. Billy Joel, who sank pretty low into his own tabloid hell, is playing Madison Square Garden again in a sold-out engagement of record length. Howard Stern has re-emerged on satellite radio. We could be on the brink of another Long Island moment, and those have been hard to come by lately.'b"Judge Samuel Alito Jr., whose entire history suggests that he holds extreme views about the expansive powers of the presidency and the limited role of Congress, will almost certainly be a Supreme Court justice soon. His elevation will come courtesy of a president whose grandiose vision of his own powers threatens to undermine the nation's basic philosophy of government -- and a Senate that seems eager to cooperate by rolling over and playing dead."b"It is hard to imagine a moment when it would be more appropriate for senators to fight for a principle. Even a losing battle would draw the public's attention to the import of this nomination."b'At the Judiciary Committee hearings, the judge followed the well-worn path to confirmation, which has the nominee offer up only the most boring statements and unarguable truisms: the president is not above the law; diversity in college student bodies is a good thing. But in what he has said in the past, and what he refused to say in the hearings, Judge Alito raised warning flags that, in the current political context, cannot simply be shrugged away with a promise to fight again another day.'b"The Alito nomination has been discussed largely in the context of his opposition to abortion rights, and if the hearings provided any serious insight at all into the nominee's intentions, it was that he has never changed his early convictions on that point. The judge -- who long maintained that Roe v. Wade should be overturned -- ignored all the efforts by the Judiciary Committee's chairman, Arlen Specter, to get him to provide some cover for pro-choice senators who wanted to support the nomination. As it stands, it is indefensible for Mr. Specter or any other senator who has promised constituents to protect a woman's right to an abortion to turn around and hand Judge Alito a potent vote to undermine or even end it."b'But portraying the Alito nomination as just another volley in the culture wars vastly underestimates its significance. The judge\'s record strongly suggests that he is an eager lieutenant in the ranks of the conservative theorists who ignore our system of checks and balances, elevating the presidency over everything else. He has expressed little enthusiasm for restrictions on presidential power and has espoused the peculiar argument that a president\'s intent in signing a bill is just as important as the intent of Congress in writing it. This would be worrisome at any time, but it takes on far more significance now, when the Bush administration seems determined to use the cover of the "war on terror" and presidential privilege to ignore every restraint, from the Constitution to Congressional demands for information.'b'There was nothing that Judge Alito said in his hearings that gave any comfort to those of us who wonder whether the new Roberts court will follow precedent and continue to affirm, for instance, that a man the president labels an "unlawful enemy combatant" has the basic right to challenge the government\'s ability to hold him in detention forever without explanation. His much-quoted statement that the president is not above the law is meaningless unless he also believes that the law requires the chief executive to defer to Congress and the courts.'b"Judge Alito's refusal to even pretend to sound like a moderate was telling because it would have cost him so little. Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., who was far more skillful at appearing mainstream at the hearings, has already given indications that whatever he said about the limits of executive power when he was questioned by the Senate has little practical impact on how he will rule now that he has a lifetime appointment."b"Senate Democrats, who presented a united front against the nomination of Judge Alito in the Judiciary Committee, seem unwilling to risk the public criticism that might come with a filibuster -- particularly since there is very little chance it would work. Judge Alito's supporters would almost certainly be able to muster the 60 senators necessary to put the nomination to a final vote."b"A filibuster is a radical tool. It's easy to see why Democrats are frightened of it. But from our perspective, there are some things far more frightening. One of them is Samuel Alito on the Supreme Court."b'The Greeks used to say we suffer our way to wisdom. The Democrats have been doing most of the electoral suffering, and these days the wisest political analysis comes from Democrats who are trying to figure out what went wrong.'b"Over the past few decades, Democrats have generally conceived of America as a society divided between comfortable haves and insecure have-nots. Having read thousands of gloomy articles about downsizing, outsourcing and wage stagnation, they've tried to rally the insecure working majority against the privileged minority -- or, as Al Gore put it, the people against the powerful."b'But since this strategy has notably failed, some analysts are thinking maybe there is no frightened majority longing for government succor.'b'Last year, the liberal economist Stephen Rose posted an essay on the Emerging Democratic Majority Web site in which he observed, "It is an occupational hazard of those with big hearts to overestimate the share of the population that is economically distressed." Rose concluded that only 19 percent of males and 27 percent of females are poor or working poor -- a percentage that is "probably much smaller than most progressive commentators would estimate."'b'Furthermore, he wrote, the percentage of Americans with reasonably well-paying corporate jobs has expanded over the past few decades: "Contrary to what some on the left might think, the share of bad jobs fell significantly as more workers with postsecondary education moved into an expanding set of managerial and professional jobs."'b"Rose calculated the household incomes for people between 26 and 59 and found that the average annual family income is somewhere around $63,000 a year -- an impressive figure. Opinion polls consistently show that people at these income levels feel as if they're doing quite well and don't feel oppressed by forces beyond their control."b"This suggests that liberals have adopted an overly negative view of reality. Barbara Ehrenreich's books are well and good, but if you think they represent the broader society, you'll get America wrong."b'Smart Democratic analysts are also taking another look at values issues. There has been a tendency in Democratic circles to regard values as a sideshow that Republicans use to fool the working class into voting against its self-interest.'b"But over the past year the Democratic polling firm of Greenberg, Quinlan, Rosner has noted that voters don't separate values issues from economic issues. They use values issues as stand-ins and figure the candidates they associate with traditional morality are also the ones with sensible economic policies."b'In the current issue of The American Prospect, Garance Franke-Ruta also notes the interplay between values and economic issues. "Traditional values have become aspirational," she writes. "Lower-income individuals simply live in a much more disrupted society, with higher divorce rates, more single moms, more abortions, and more interpersonal and interfamily strife, than do the middle- and upper-middle-class people they want to be like."'b"With these sentiments, Democrats seem to be moving away from materialistic determinism. In past decades, Democratic political campaigns have been based primarily on appeals to economic interests. But especially in the information age, social values and cultural capital shape a person's economic destiny more than the other way around."b"If you are a middle-class woman, you have more to fear from divorce than from outsourcing. If you have a daughter, you're right to worry more about her having a child before marriage than about her being a victim of globalization. This country's prosperity is threatened more by homes where no one reads to children than it is by big pharmaceutical companies."b"Daniel Patrick Moynihan observed that the core conservative truth is that culture matters most, and that the core liberal truth is that government can reshape culture. But liberals have turned culturally libertarian. Afraid to be judgmental about things like family structure, they've dropped out of the core values debate."b'Conservatives, especially evangelicals, have had free rein to offer their own recipe for social renewal: churches that restrain male selfishness, decency standards that check hedonism, social norms that discourage childbearing outside wedlock.'b'Middle-class Americans feel social anxiety more acutely than economic anxiety because they understand that values matter most. Democrats are beginning to understand this, too.'b'No debate about the meaning of memoirs and memory will clear the air around James Frey, the author of "A Million Little Pieces," and his publisher, Nan Talese of Doubleday. But what happened yesterday on Oprah Winfrey\'s couch came close. In a remarkable moment of television, Ms. Winfrey did what we have so often waited for public figures to do: she admitted openly that she had made a mistake in supporting Mr. Frey. Then she did her best to force him, and Ms. Talese, to admit the extent of his deception and the publisher\'s failure.'b"As Mr. Frey, looking suitably confused and miserable, responded to Ms. Winfrey's cross-examination, it became clear that he'd consistently thought of the people in his book as characters and altered the lives of almost every one. It also became clear that the written account of his sufferings had a clarity that his actual memories \xe2\x80\x94 as he tried to recreate them under the serenely furious eye of Ms. Winfrey \xe2\x80\x94 did not. Now he has a story of true suffering to tell."b'Ms. Talese was speaking, in a sense, for all of publishing, and her defense revealed the enormous gap in the editing of nonfiction books. She spoke as a reader might \xe2\x80\x94 about the effect the book had on her, and about how true it seemed. She did not sound like an editor who was willing to stand behind the accuracy of a manuscript she had marketed as fact.'b'One expects the language of soft psychology from Ms. Winfrey. That is what we got, instead, from Ms. Talese. Ms. Winfrey gave the audience, including us, what it was hoping for: a demand to hear the truth.'b'Justice Antonin Scalia certainly has poor judgment when it comes to vacations.'b"Justice Scalia was apparently unchastened by the criticism of his 2004 duck-hunting excursion with Vice President Dick Cheney, one of that term's most prominent Supreme Court litigants. Last September, he skipped the swearing-in of Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. because of another ethically dubious trip, this time to the posh Ritz-Carlton at the Beaver Creek ski resort in Colorado."b'He was there to teach a 10-hour seminar over a couple of days for a conservative group, the Federalist Society. "Nightline" recently reported that the gig had left Justice Scalia plenty of time for tennis, fly-fishing and socializing with seminar participants, some of whom may have business before the Supreme Court. One Federalist Society cocktail reception was sponsored in part by the lobbying and law firm that used to employ Jack Abramoff, Tom DeLay\'s convicted pal and benefactor for golf trips.'b'Justice Scalia\'s travel is part of a broader affliction on the federal bench. The Los Angeles Times reported in 2004, for example, that Justice Clarence Thomas had accepted thousands of dollars in gifts in recent years, including an $800 leather jacket, a $1,200 set of tires from Nascar and an extravagant vacation from a conservative activist. Federal judges below the Supreme Court level accept dozens of free vacations each year from well-heeled special interests under the guise of "judicial education."'b'The judicial lobbying problem is more serious in one respect than the scandal enveloping Congress. Lawmakers operate in an overtly political environment, but the decision-making process of judges is supposed to be impermeable to clever efforts by special interests to buy access and favor.'b"Three Democratic senators with a longstanding concern about this problem -- Patrick Leahy of Vermont, Russell Feingold of Wisconsin and John Kerry of Massachusetts -- are readying provisions to ban junkets and other compromising gifts for judges, which they hope to make part of their party's lobbying reform proposal. For Congress to pass a lobbying reform bill that curbs inappropriate perks for lawmakers but not for federal judges would be a scandal in itself."b"The goals that Mayor Michael Bloomberg imposed on himself in yesterday's State of the City address were very ambitious. But Mr. Bloomberg is nothing if not a grand overachiever, and his to-do list was so well chosen that it's impossible not to cheer his agenda."b'The mayor, sounding energetic and engaged, set out a blueprint for projects like getting illegal guns off the streets, making New York "the most business-friendly city in the nation" and setting the conditions for increasing the city\'s already record-level tourism by some 25 percent in the next decade. He promised to fight for long-overdue billions of dollars from Albany for city schools. (While that cause is a popular one with virtually every City Hall politician, the mayor\'s call to crack down on lobbyists got only tepid applause.)'b"The mayor correctly aimed at the confusion and stagnation at the World Trade Center site, promising to move quickly to make the area a 24-hour community rather than leaving it as a construction site while Larry Silverstein, the developer, builds over the next 15 years. It will take some creative muscle to limit Mr. Silverstein's control, but that kind of business negotiation should be the mayor's strong suit. Mr. Bloomberg also needs to make certain that whatever is built there is worthy of New York City -- not compromised into mediocrity in the name of consensus or security."b'With Gov. George Pataki eyeing his future elsewhere, Mr. Bloomberg has rightly taken on the mantle downtown. Revitalizing one of the gateways to Lower Manhattan -- Governors Island -- is also on his agenda. A decent plan for that historic place is long overdue.'b"Perhaps the most heartening parts of the mayor's address concerned the city's poor. Except for his signature work to improve public schools, Mr. Bloomberg did not really make the most vulnerable New Yorkers a top priority in his first term. Now his idea of a public-private partnership to tackle the problem could produce helpful initiatives. The speech was also peppered with laudable goals like providing health care to every schoolchild and reducing the epidemic rates of diabetes among the poor and minorities. It would have been nice if that last initiative had been coupled with a pledge to turn back the agreement he struck putting sugary Snapple soft drinks in school vending machines."b"The mayor's intention of continuing his property-tax rebate program seems ill advised, given the multiple needs he outlined and the limits of city resources. Nevertheless, the speech was an excellent beginning for Mr. Bloomberg's second term."b"On Tuesday President Bush will deliver his State of the Union address and map out priorities for his last three years. The direction in which America needs to go is obvious: toward energy independence. If Mr. Bush steps up to that challenge, this speech could be a new beginning for his presidency. If he doesn't, you can stick a fork in this administration. It will be done -- because it will have abdicated leadership on the biggest issue of our day. Here's the speech I'll be listening for:"b'My fellow Americans, on May 25, 1961, President Kennedy gave an extraordinary State of the Union address in which he called on the nation to marshal all of its resources to put a man on the Moon. By setting that lofty goal, Kennedy was trying to summon all of our industrial and scientific talent, and a willingness to sacrifice financially, to catch up with the Soviet Union, which had overtaken America in the field of large rocket engines.'b'"While we cannot guarantee that we shall one day be first," Kennedy said, "we can guarantee that any failure to make this effort will make us last."'b"I come to you this evening with a similar challenge. President Kennedy was worried about the threat that communism posed to our way of life. I am here to tell you that if we don't move away from our dependence on oil and shift to renewable fuels, it will change our way of life for the worse -- and soon -- much, much more than communism ever could have. Making this transition is the calling of our era."b"Why? First, we are in a war with a violent strain of Middle East Islam that is indirectly financed by our consumption of oil. Second, with millions of Indians and Chinese buying cars and homes as they join the great global middle class, we must quickly move away from burning fossil fuels or we're going to create enough global warming to melt the North Pole. Because of that, green cars, homes, offices, appliances, designs and renewable energies will be the biggest growth industry of the 21st century. If we don't dominate that industry, China, India, Japan or Europe surely will."b"But to lead, we must impose the highest energy-efficiency standards on our own automakers and other industries so we force them to be the most innovative. I want to inspire girls and boys across America to study math, science and engineering to help our nation achieve green energy independence. President Kennedy said, Let's put a man on the Moon. I say, Let's make oil obsolete."b'Finally, my call for spreading democracy will never be achieved if some of the worst regimes on the planet -- Iran, Sudan, Venezuela -- have so much oil money they can misbehave and ignore the world, and if the rest of us -- Europe, America, China and India -- are forever coddling them to get access to their crude.'b'With all of this in mind, I am sending Congress the Bush Energy Freedom Act. It is based on ideas first offered by the energy expert Philip Verleger and it argues the following:'b"Transportation accounts for most of our oil consumption. And many Americans have purchased big cars and S.U.V.'s, expecting gasoline to remain cheap. That is no longer the case. Therefore, I propose creating a government agency that will buy up any gas-guzzling car or truck in America at the original new or used price, and crush it. This national buy-back program will be financed by a $2-a-gallon gasoline tax that will be phased in by 10 cents a month beginning in 2008 -- so people know what is coming and start buying fuel-efficient cars right now."b"By removing so many gas guzzlers, we will quickly reduce our oil consumption and create a huge demand for new energy-efficient cars from Detroit, which will rescue our auto industry. We have to do something drastic. The Harley-Davidson motorcycle company is worth more today than General Motors! But by sharply raising the gasoline tax, we'll also make sure that Detroit shifts its fleet to energy-saving plug-in hybrids and hydrogen- and ethanol-fueled vehicles, which will force Detroit to out-innovate Toyota. And by generating so much income from a gasoline tax, we will be able to give gas-tax rebates to lower-income folks and have plenty left over to pay for new investment in education and scientific research."b'Impossible? Read my lips: Nothing is impossible when Americans put their hearts and minds to it.'b'One last thing: I have accepted the resignation of Vice President Dick Cheney, who felt he could not be a salesman for the Energy Freedom Act. I am nominating Jeffrey Immelt -- the C.E.O. of General Electric, who has focused G.E.\'s innovation around "eco-imagination" -- as Mr. Cheney\'s replacement.'b'Good night, and God bless America.'b"LAST week, Maine became the first state to require manufacturers of computer monitors and televisions to pay for their recycling and disposal. Washington, with a pending bill, may be next. That's progress, right?"b'Computer recycling sounds like an unmitigated good: it keeps hazardous components out of incinerators and landfills, which researchers at Carnegie Mellon University estimate already hold more than 60 million computers. And by reusing glass, plastic, aluminum and heavy metals (like lead, copper and mercury), recycling averts the energy use and pollution linked with mining and drilling for new materials.'b'But because recycling in the United States is expensive, hazardous and encumbered with environmental and safety regulations, many companies that collect e-waste simply ship it to underdeveloped nations. According to the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition and the Basel Action Network, up to 80 percent of the material dropped off by well-meaning Americans at community recycling events ends up bundled for export.'b"Most of the stuff that goes overseas can't or won't be fixed and sold. Computer dealers in Lagos, Nigeria, for example, complain that up to 75 percent of the 400,000 units they receive each month from recyclers are junk. A 2002 documentary showed Chinese workers, including children, using hammers and chisels to pry copper and aluminum from computers, burning PVC-coated wires to get at copper and swirling acids in buckets to extract gold."b'After stripping what they can, workers dump the computer carcasses and waste sludge in nearby fields or streams. Soil and water tests in the e-waste processing town of Guiyu, China, for instance, revealed levels of chromium, tin and barium hundreds of times higher than allowable in the United States.'b"It's easy to find American companies that call themselves computer recyclers, but it's hard to trace what they actually do. The government doesn't regulate these businesses, and the Environmental Protection Agency has no certification process for recyclers. There are dozens of e-waste bills being considered across the country, including one in New York City. Five states and 15 counties ban computer and television monitors from landfills. California, Maine, Maryland and Massachusetts have e-waste recycling programs in place, all financed by different mechanisms."b"Even the electronics industry doesn't like this patchwork approach, but so far, no one has come up with anything better. Four e-waste bills are floating around the House and Senate: the biggest difference between them is whether consumers or manufacturers would pay for the programs. A strong argument holds that when producers must manage their own discards, they have a strong incentive to design equipment that's nontoxic and easy to recycle."b"The sooner Congress gets it together, the better. Electronic waste is now considered the fastest-growing segment of the municipal waste stream in the United States. The National Safety Council estimated in 2004 that by 2009, 250 million computers will have become obsolete. As awareness of the hazards of e-waste rises, more states will ban it from landfills. But keeping toxic trash from our dumps won't mean a thing if we don't forbid the export of hazardous material to countries without enforceable environmental regulations."b"To halt this environmental injustice, in which we're all complicit, the federal government needs to restrict the use of hazardous materials in computers, require manufacturers to put in place recycling programs (it will be a lot cheaper and safer to recycle this stuff once the toxics are out) and ban hazardous waste exports. That may sound like a tall order, but that's no reason not to proceed: the European Union has already passed every one of these laws."b'Op-Ed Contributor Elizabeth Royte is the author, most recently, of "Garbage Land: On the Secret Trail of Trash."'b'For 20 years Ariel Sharon and other Israeli hard-liners have claimed that they had no negotiating partner interested in or capable of securing peace between Israelis and Palestinians. That always seemed a debatable point, until now.'b"There are many reasons to explain why Palestinians voted to hand over their government to Hamas, an organization that revels in terrorism and is sworn to destroy Israel. The inability of President Mahmoud Abbas's party, Fatah, to run its affairs is first on the list, if pre-election polls of Palestinians were accurate. Fatah has been corrupt and inept, and it represented the status quo, not a happy position given the lawlessness in Gaza, the unemployment rate in Nablus and the despair among young people in Jericho. Mr. Abbas didn't help matters much, proving weak and incapable of imposing control over the battered Palestinian Authority."b"Israeli hard-liners can blame themselves as well. Even though most reasonable people have recognized Mr. Abbas as a far more pragmatic negotiating partner than Yasir Arafat was, Prime Minister Sharon failed to give Mr. Abbas any concession that he could point to as an achievement. Instead, Israel has busied itself with carrying out Mr. Sharon's doctrine of unilateral separation from the Palestinians, a doctrine that is sure to gain more favor now that the Palestinians have chosen Hamas."b'But all of this is peripheral to two central facts. Hamas grew out of a terrorist organization that has undermined every small step toward peace with mass murder. And on Wednesday, Palestinians voted almost two to one to put Hamas in charge of running their government. For there to be any hope of getting out of the impasse in the Middle East, one of those two things must change.'b"It would be nice to believe that Hamas, now that it is assuming the reins of power and the burden of actually having to govern, will renounce its call for the destruction of a sovereign state, disarm its private army, get into the business of making life better for Palestinians and try to negotiate the creation of a real Palestinian state. While we're not hopeful, we are reminded that the Palestine Liberation Organization of the late Mr. Arafat, of which Mr. Abbas was once second in command, was born in terrorism. For many years Mr. Arafat and his gunmen were hunted by Israel, much as Hamas has been in recent years."b'President Bush was absolutely right when he urged Mr. Abbas to remain in office as a sign of stability and set Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice the task of seeing whether the shards of the peace process could be reassembled. But he was also absolutely right when he said, "A political party that articulates the destruction of Israel as part of its platform is a party with which we will not deal."'b"Hamas has a choice between governing and terror. Is the party more interested in making sure that the electricity and water stay on, that Palestinian boys and girls make it to school, and that these battered people finally get a state of their own? Or is it more interested in continuing its campaign to destroy Israel? If Hamas chooses the latter, it's more than likely that it will not be around for long, and rightly so."b"Nablus, West Bank - THE crescent has risen. The militant Islamic group Hamas won an astonishing 76 of 132 seats in the Palestinian legislative elections this week. The United States and the European Union must finally recognize Hamas's ascendance as a fait accompli."b"Until now, these key third parties have equivocated: they pressed Israel to allow Hamas to participate in the elections but threatened to cut aid and ties to a Hamas-dominated Palestinian Authority. The practical reality, however, is that Hamas is a pivotal player in Palestinian politics, and no peace process can succeed without at least the tacit acceptance of its leaders. Moreover, Hamas's participation in Palestinian politics is not necessarily a bad thing, and resisting it will very likely do more harm than good."b'As a political party, Hamas revealed itself to be disciplined, pragmatic and surprisingly flexible. It fielded well-regarded candidates, including doctors and academics. In some cases, Hamas aligned itself with independents once affiliated with the secular Fatah party. And although the Hamas charter calls for the destruction of Israel and the liberation of Palestine "from the river to the sea," the party\'s campaign manifesto made no mention of these goals.'b'Instead, when asked about making peace with Israel, Hamas representatives offered nuanced, if evasive, answers. As Ziad Daiah, a Hamas representative in Ramallah, told us: "We are not interested in the Oslo-type peace process that went on for 10 years and wasted time. But if Israel will start new negotiations, with direct benefits for Palestinians in a useful time frame, we will accept that."'b"Judging from the thousands of green posters plastered around the West Bank and Gaza, external matters like the peace process were not central to Hamas's electoral agenda. Rather, its campaign focused on popular concerns like fighting corruption, establishing good governance and restoring the rule of law. Hamas's victory speeches have emphasized the need to revamp public services."b"To be sure, we should be careful not to read too much into Hamas's electioneering. The Hamas charter retains poisonous language toward Israel, and the group has yet to renounce its views on the place of violence in the Palestinian resistance. And Hamas's Islamist agenda continues to alarm many secular Palestinians, even those who welcome its entry into politics."b'Still, Hamas statements indicate that these attitudes are not set in stone. As Mohammed Ghazel, a Hamas leader in Nablus, told the Israeli newspaper Ha\'aretz, "The charter is not the Koran." And Hamas has done more than any other armed faction to honor the truce that President Mahmoud Abbas brokered in February. Although Israel continues to arrest its members, Hamas has done little to retaliate. Such restraint might have been an electoral strategy, but it still proves that if the incentives are right, Hamas can hold its fire.'b'In any case, the United States and Europe cannot trumpet democratic ideals abroad and then ignore the popular will of Palestinian voters, 78 percent of whom turned out for this election. Refusing to engage with Hamas, however skeptical one may be of its intentions, will only further legitimize the party; it could even give rise to violence. Moreover, cutting off aid to the Palestinian Authority, which is already in a fiscal crisis and enormously dependent on foreign aid, could bankrupt it, further destabilizing the region.'b'Hamas has indisputably become the force to be reckoned with in Palestinian politics. Even Israel seems to have awakened to this reality. A radio reporter recently asked Shimon Peres, the former Israeli prime minister, about negotiating with Hamas. "We are not fighting against a name," he said. "We are fighting against a situation. If the situation changes, then what difference does a name make?"'b"If the Israelis are contemplating engagement, it's time the Americans and Europeans did, too."b'Op-Ed Contributor Fotini Christia is a fellow at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard. Sreemati Mitter works for the Palestinian Initiative for the Promotion of Global Dialogue and Democracy in Ramallah, West Bank.'b'TEL AVIV - THE day before Iran\'s ninth presidential elections last June, President Bush sent a discouraging message to potential voters. Iran\'s electoral process "ignores the basic requirements of democracy," Mr. Bush declared, and these elections would be "sadly consistent" with the country\'s "oppressive record." For Iranians, there was no mistaking the American president\'s point: he was tacitly sanctioning the call that some Iranian exiles and activists had issued for an election boycott, based on exactly this logic.'b"An American administration that had called on other Middle Eastern populaces to vote in flawed elections greeted the Iranian electoral process with nothing but open disdain. It is worth revisiting this odd judgment call at a time when Hamas's victory in the Palestinian elections has raised even more questions about Washington's confused strategy of democracy promotion."b'In Iran last June, the call for a boycott resonated with frustrated and apathetic voters. Many, if not most, moderates and reform advocates stayed home from the polls. And we all know what followed: the philosophy-loving moderate, Mohammad Khatami, was replaced as president by a radical militant, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad -- a former military commander who presides over one of the most extreme governments post-revolutionary Iran has yet had.'b"That's right: with what appeared to be the endorsement of President Bush and dozens of American-backed satellite television channels that broadcast in Farsi, the disillusioned young people of Iran effectively took one of the world's most closely watched nuclear programs out of the hands of a reformer and placed it into the hands of a hard-line reactionary."b'Can anyone now doubt that Iranian elections, however flawed, really do matter? When Mr. Khatami came to power, his declared goals were to establish the rule of law, demand equal rights for all citizens and reconcile Iran with the world. He may not have succeeded in all of those endeavors, but Mr. Ahmadinejad has entered government with manifestly opposite priorities.'b'The new president\'s allies in Parliament recently concluded that nearly 80 percent of the books published under President Khatami violated revolutionary values and should be placed under restrictions. Films that promote feminism, secularism and liberalism are to be banned. And while President Khatami built his international reputation on his call for a "dialogue among civilizations," President Ahmadinejad has reached out to racists and anti-Semites instead.'b"It's true that Iranian elections are not quite democratic, because the unelected Guardian Council reserves the right to bar candidates. But the real problem here is that boycotting semi-democratic elections ultimately will not make such a system more democratic."b'The rise of Mr. Ahmadinejad, and the threat he poses to the stability of a volatile region, demonstrates that promoting apathy in a semi-democratic system can only strengthen the radical anti-democracy forces. And it raises a question as to whether that is what hawks in Washington actually wanted.'b'Contrast the "don\'t vote" message that President Bush sent to Iranians to the one delivered to Iraqis through a major media campaign and other costly means: "Your destiny is in your own hands. Disappoint the anti-democracy radicals and go out and vote."'b'If the United States is serious about promoting democratic change in Iran, it needs to try the same approach that brought Iraqis to the polls despite mortal danger. Mr. Bush and his supporters should encourage the people of Iran to participate in the next election. And they should urge Iranians to vote for someone who will make their country more open and democratic, rather than more threatening, as Iran under President Ahmadinejad has become.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Hossein Derakhshan writes the Farsi-English blog "Editor: Myself."'b"Pakistan's prime minister came to the White House this week and pretended that the people of Pakistan highly value their country's current close military relationship with the United States. President Bush reciprocated by pretending in his public comments that the American airstrikes that killed 18 Pakistani civilians earlier this month were not Topic A in that relationship. Even diplomacy requires more direct talk than this."b"Those strikes were legitimately aimed at top fugitive leaders of Al Qaeda, but hit innocent women and children. Pakistan's people deserve a good explanation, and since they haven't heard one from their leaders, Mr. Bush should have provided it."b"Washington needs a strong and healthy partnership with Pakistan if it is to have any chance of eliminating Qaeda's leaders, defeating a resurgent Taliban and turning back nuclear weapons proliferation. But strong and healthy partnerships are not built around political charades. And that is the only way to describe the events in Washington last week."b"Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz is a decent, intelligent man. But real prime ministers, including the ones Pakistan had in the 1990's, come out of democratically elected parliaments. Mr. Aziz was appointed by a military dictator, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, who has yet to permit the democratic elections he has repeatedly promised since his coup more than six years ago."b'That makes it awkward for Mr. Aziz to deliver messages about how highly the Pakistani people value their ties with Washington, particularly when just about every poll and street demonstration suggest just how unpopular those ties have become. One crucial reason General Musharraf gets so little pressure from the Bush administration about restoring democracy is the almost universal assumption in Washington that only a dictator can deliver Pakistani military cooperation.'b'That had better not be true because Washington will need support from Pakistan for a long time, and General Musharraf, who has already survived several assassination attempts and again faces serious challenges, cannot stay in power indefinitely. He has also proved to be unable, or unwilling, to close down the sanctuaries that three different groups of terrorists -- Qaeda, Taliban and Kashmiri -- have established along three Pakistani borders.'b"The most important of these to the United States are the safe zones that fugitive Qaeda leaders established after fleeing the Tora Bora caves in Afghanistan four years ago. It is inexcusable that a Pentagon already looking ahead to Iraq did not pour in enough American troops to block the escape of Osama bin Laden and his top deputies, the masterminds of the 9/11 attacks. Attacking them in wartime Afghanistan would have been far simpler, militarily and politically, than trying to catch up with them in tribal areas that even the Pakistani Army can't control. But that is where they are now, and where America's war against them must be fought."b'It is not enough for Mr. Bush to exchange periodic pleasantries with General Musharraf and Mr. Aziz. He needs to address the concerns of the Pakistani people as well. A franker public discussion of the airstrikes would have been a good place to start.'b'With scandal flames licking at the ties between lobbyists and Republican lawmakers, and Tom DeLay indicted and in retreat from leadership, Republicans will be choosing his replacement next week.'b'If the two main contenders are any measure, true lobbying reform will prove hard to come by. The front-runner, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, is deeply involved with the lobbying industry, both as a power in the DeLay money machine and as the husband of a lobbyist and the father of another. Mr. Blunt discreetly scrapped a $5,000-a-head fund-raiser next week for one of his political kitties, oddly called Rely on Your Beliefs. His main challenger, Representative John Boehner of Ohio, also has long and close ties to K Street, whose privileged entree to the Capitol is rooted in feeding campaign war chests. While promising reform, Mr. Boehner is still apologizing for handing out checks from tobacco interests on the House floor 10 years ago.'b"Neither contender's behavior has violated any laws. And this is exactly why neither is likely to feel a great compunction to really close loopholes in the law and bite the hands that feed Washington politics. The way the Capitol culture works, leaders of both parties maintain special fund-raising committees -- often tied to power lobbyists -- set up to distribute money to individual lawmakers as a way of securing a power base. The conundrum is that money has become synonymous with leadership. It will take a special brand of politician to reform that."b'No man is an island, but in the world of the ultrarich, each appears to deserve his own Titanic. A mere yacht is no longer sufficient for the status-conscious magnate. Flaunting your affluence now requires a megayacht at least 80 feet long, with its own helipad, gym and antique furniture.'b"But an article by Michelle Higgins this month in The Times laid out a vexing problem for those members of the boating elite. Some of these behemoths are now so large that they are in fact too big to dock at many marinas. Either the water isn't deep enough or the slips aren't long enough, much to the consternation of their owners."b"Lesser mortals might argue that they could drop anchor farther out and take launches into shore. That ignores the very reason for investing in a 400-foot yacht in the first place: to be seen disembarking from it. Were one to hide one's pride and joy from view, a mere 70-footer might suffice. In the name of one-upmanship, the wealthy have ballooned their boats until they are not only impractical but also genuinely inconvenient."b'Which helps explain why our expectations remain low for the good-intentioned proposal on executive compensation put forth by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Though not yet finalized, the new rules would require publicly traded companies to disclose a great deal more information about the salaries, bonuses, stock grants and perks showered on top executives and directors.'b"We support the plan and hope that transparency will encourage saner compensation, giving investors a clearer picture of how executives are paid and pampered. But it could also end up having the perverse effect of driving up salaries for corporate officers by providing a handy benchmark for executives to compare their pay packages and demand equal treatment. If the chief executive down the block is having his taxes paid by the company, why shouldn't yours be as well?"b"While we applaud the S.E.C. for trying to give investors a clearer picture of how executives are paid and pampered, we can't shake the image of those monster yachts. If we're lucky, maybe the chief executives with the most bloated salaries will be adrift at sea, too, without a port to call home."b'AMHERST, Mass. - IN recent weeks, President Bush and his administration have mounted a spirited defense of his Iraq policy, the Patriot Act and, especially, a program to wiretap civilians, often reaching back into American history for precedents to justify these actions. It is clear that the president believes that he is acting to protect the security of the American people. It is equally clear that both his belief and the executive authority he claims to justify its use derive from the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.'b"A myriad of contested questions are obviously at issue here -- foreign policy questions about the danger posed by Iraq, constitutional questions about the proper limits on executive authority, even political questions about the president's motives in attacking Iraq. But all of those debates are playing out under the shadow of Sept. 11 and the tremendous changes that it prompted in both foreign and domestic policy."b'Whether or not we can regard Sept. 11 as history, I would like to raise two historical questions about the terrorist attacks of that horrific day. My goal is not to offer definitive answers but rather to invite a serious debate about whether Sept. 11 deserves the historical significance it has achieved.'b'My first question: where does Sept. 11 rank in the grand sweep of American history as a threat to national security? By my calculations it does not make the top tier of the list, which requires the threat to pose a serious challenge to the survival of the American republic.'b'Here is my version of the top tier: the War for Independence, where defeat meant no United States of America; the War of 1812, when the national capital was burned to the ground; the Civil War, which threatened the survival of the Union; World War II, which represented a totalitarian threat to democracy and capitalism; the cold war, most specifically the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, which made nuclear annihilation a distinct possibility.'b'Sept. 11 does not rise to that level of threat because, while it places lives and lifestyles at risk, it does not threaten the survival of the American republic, even though the terrorists would like us to believe so.'b'My second question is this: What does history tell us about our earlier responses to traumatic events?'b'My list of precedents for the Patriot Act and government wiretapping of American citizens would include the Alien and Sedition Acts in 1798, which allowed the federal government to close newspapers and deport foreigners during the "quasi-war" with France; the denial of habeas corpus during the Civil War, which permitted the pre-emptive arrest of suspected Southern sympathizers; the Red Scare of 1919, which emboldened the attorney general to round up leftist critics in the wake of the Russian Revolution; the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II, which was justified on the grounds that their ancestry made them potential threats to national security; the McCarthy scare of the early 1950\'s, which used cold war anxieties to pursue a witch hunt against putative Communists in government, universities and the film industry.'b'In retrospect, none of these domestic responses to perceived national security threats looks justifiable. Every history textbook I know describes them as lamentable, excessive, even embarrassing. Some very distinguished American presidents, including John Adams, Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt, succumbed to quite genuine and widespread popular fears. No historian or biographer has argued that these were their finest hours.'b'What Patrick Henry once called "the lamp of experience" needs to be brought into the shadowy space in which we have all been living since Sept. 11. My tentative conclusion is that the light it sheds exposes the ghosts and goblins of our traumatized imaginations. It is completely understandable that those who lost loved ones on that date will carry emotional scars for the remainder of their lives. But it defies reason and experience to make Sept. 11 the defining influence on our foreign and domestic policy. History suggests that we have faced greater challenges and triumphed, and that overreaction is a greater danger than complacency.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Joseph J. Ellis is a professor of history at Mount Holyoke College and the author, most recently, of "His Excellency: George Washington."'b"BEN S. BERNANKE picks up the chairman's baton at the Federal Reserve next week to face an unusual paradox: thanks to the model stewardship of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, monetary policy -- the heart of the Fed's activities -- is marching along in good order, while the rest of economic policy mostly begs for reshaping. Mediocre and inadequate policies outside the Fed's purview have resulted in huge budget and trade deficits, a nonexistent energy strategy, spiraling federal spending, looming pension and Medicare shortfalls, and a tax structure that has contributed to the greatest income inequality in the last half-century."b"More so than many past Fed chairmen, Mr. Greenspan opined on such matters and for much of his tenure, his impact outside of the Fed's pastures was pronounced: President Clinton's budget package, banking deregulation and the financial crises in Mexico and Asia were all managed with a strong helping hand from Mr. Greenspan. But since the arrival of the Bush administration in 2001, Mr. Greenspan has sometimes been less sensible (most notably, in his tortured backing of the Bush tax cuts) while his constructive thoughts have been largely ignored."b'Fed watchers sometimes grumble that Mr. Greenspan should have stuck to interest rates. Mr. Bernanke himself intimated in his confirmation hearings that he was likely to say less about non-monetary matters. That would be unfortunate.'b"The Fed chairman is the most important economic policymaker on the planet. Mr. Bernanke's credibility is further heightened by his impeccable academic credentials, previous service at the Federal Reserve and reputation for speaking directly. His unanimous recommendation from the Senate Banking Committee underscores the political capital and goodwill with which he arrives."b"Mr. Bernanke should use his influence. But to make the most of it, he must first show he can sustain Mr. Greenspan's extraordinary record on monetary matters. To that end, he should re-examine his pet philosophy of centering monetary policy on an inflation target."b'Mr. Greenspan has spoken out against this narrow approach, a cousin of the old method of setting a target for the size of the money supply (remember M-1?) that he abandoned in favor of basing interest rate decisions on a vast stew of variables, all analyzed in a quest for balance between steady growth and low inflation.'b'Inflation targeting, which has been used with seeming success in Britain and several other prospering countries, may be a fine idea. But with job and productivity growth in the United States high and inflation low, why do we need to start experimenting?'b"Even as Mr. Bernanke shows that he can manage monetary policy, he should begin to speak out on other issues, aiming particularly for those that bear on the Fed's effectiveness, like deficit control."b'Wise Fed chairmen, of course, never comment on interest rates and other sensitive matters. Nor do they issue streams of economic prognoses that are not much more likely to be accurate than those of other well-trained economists.'b"But warning about economic dangers should be fair game, particularly when using Fed policies would not be appropriate, as has been the case with recent asset bubbles -- high-flying stocks back in 2000; housing prices today. Mr. Bernanke should reemphasize the deficit's impact on interest rates and stress that its meaningful reduction requires both curbing spending and raising revenue through taxes or other means. In these matters, Mr. Bernanke's clear speaking can be put to good use."b"Greater transparency about the Fed's own actions would also increase Mr. Bernanke's credibility and influence. For starters, the Fed should release the economic forecasts prepared for meetings of its interest rate-setting body (a release that Mr. Bernanke has indicated he favors), clearly explain its interest rate decisions and provide more timely and illuminating summaries of its deliberations."b"Because he lacks Mr. Greenspan's considerable political experience, Mr. Bernanke may seem at a disadvantage if he ventures beyond interest rates. But we are sorely in need of economic wisdom, and perhaps Americans (and the politicians who represent them) are ready to heed a fresh voice."b'Op-Ed Contributor Steven Rattner is managing principal at the Quadrangle Group, a private investment firm.'b'A three-month investigation by Edmund L. Andrews of The Times has raised troubling questions about royalty payments from energy companies that extract natural gas under federal leases. Although the market price for natural gas has soared in recent years, the payments in fiscal year 2005 were below those made in fiscal 2001. There is reason to wonder whether defects in the rules or perhaps even scheming by the gas producers is depriving the government of hundreds of millions of dollars. Clearly, an audit is needed.'b"The Interior Department's Minerals Management Service attributes the lagging royalties to seemingly innocuous factors. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita led to late royalty payments, it says. And production sites have shifted over the past few years from shallow water, where the royalty rate is high, to onshore areas, where the rate is lower, and deep water, where some production is exempt from royalties to encourage high-risk exploration."b"These factors may play some role, but their importance seems overstated. Mr. Andrews also questioned whether deliberate cheating by producers might be involved. An Alabama jury ruled in 2003 that Exxon shortchanged the state by more than $60 million for gas taken from state-owned waters, a verdict Exxon has appealed. And the Interior Department's inspector general has uncovered at least two cases of multimillion-dollar underpayments."b'Lax oversight may also contribute. The Interior Department has fewer auditors than in the past to deal with a rising workload, and has forced out two of its more aggressive and successful auditors.'b'The overriding problem may be that most royalties on gas are based on a calculated price rather than an actual market value. The companies pay royalties on the value of the gas when it emerges from the ground, not the price when it actually hits the market. They typically estimate the earlier value by taking the final sales prices and deducting the costs of transportation and processing.'b'By contrast, royalties on oil are now pegged to an index of spot market prices. By one rough calculation, if the government had used a spot market index for gas prices as well, it could have collected some $700 million more in royalty payments last year. The industry says it has come to favor indexing, so it may be time to adopt that approach for gas.'b'The Government Accountability Office should respond positively to a request from 22 senators to investigate royalty collections. The gap between the high market price for natural gas and the lower calculated price on which royalties are paid has been widening, and it is hard to see why that is justified.'b"Baton Rouge, La. - WHEN New Orleanians returned to their homes after the Storm they were struck by a smell that has no equivalent: a stupefying blend of decaying flesh as layered as the city's history. The sweet rankness of animal and human death floated around the city as it might have in the aftermath of a yellow fever epidemic in the 18th century, but added to it was the putrid efflorescence of 20th-century grocery store meat inside thousands of refrigerators."b"For a week or so after the storm, when the city wallowed in its filth and misery without help from the United States of America, which it had mistakenly believed it was part of, people helped one another drag the taped-up fridges outside. Rows and rows of white metal boxes cradling generations of maggots began to fill the narrow byways of one of America's oldest cities. Waves of putrefaction rolled over the streets. New Orleans sank into the funk like a corpse into the embrace of the earth."b"The rows of fridges lining the streets looked by moonlight like primed canvases ready for painting. The city's artists, who have been enthralled since John James Audubon by New Orleans's embrace of decay and death (Audubon purchased all his American birds dead from the French Market), were not long in reacting."b"New Orleans music and art had always been inspired by funk: rotting vegetation, blooming night jasmine, the faint smell of the dead wafting from the city's above-ground cemeteries, rotting crustaceans, transpiration and sex. Now here was all this funk, magnified a thousand times. And here were all these metal tombs stretching as far as the eye could see, more numerous than the graves they resembled. The art appeared instantly and it was, appropriately, political."b'"Chem Trails Are Real: Weather Control Is Here," was scrawled on a refrigerator below a drawing of a jet leaving behind what looked like a trail of poison. Another fridge warned severely: "Do Not Open: Cheney Inside." Inside others one could find President Bush, Condoleezza Rice, Ray Nagin and Michael Brown doing obscene things with the maggots and with each other. In a short time, there were thousands of art works in the city, an exhibition that stretched for miles, that had no official opening, that was constantly in progress.'b'Today most of the show is closed. National Guardsmen, volunteers and city workers have incinerated the art after hauling it to vast refrigerator graveyards. New Orleans always renewed its armies of ghosts after every disaster of its 500-year history, but this last addition came with its own unique, absolutely new style.   ANDREI CODRESCU'b'Op-Art Andrei Codrescu is the author, most recently, of "New Orleans, Mon Amour: 20 Years of Writing from the City." Nils Juul-Hansen is a photographer based in Austin, Tex.'b'Ignorance is the death of good public policy. Conscientious elected officials know this all too well; it is their job to wallow in budget projections, environmental-impact statements and cost-benefit analyses. That is why it is irksome, though not terribly surprising, that an issue that has consumed many parts of the country in recent years -- illegal immigration -- has simmered largely within an information vacuum.'b'Particularly in the New York suburbs, where so much attention has been focused on day laborers from Latin America, the discourse has been a frustrating battle of generalities wrapped in a fog of abstraction. Those who consider day laborers a menace tend to become worked up over aesthetics (crowds of guys at the 7-Eleven are a visual blight) and political philosophy (to witness a truly intense discussion of citizenship, national sovereignty and property rights, attend a town-hall meeting on day laborers sometime).'b'Those who speak up for day laborers often fall back on general appeals to compassion and an instinctive sympathy for the hard-working little guy. But nobody, except for members of advocacy groups and maybe a few committed cops, bothers to get to know many day laborers, who know their place in this economy and society: underground.'b'Last week, however, brought news of a good first start toward a better understanding of the day-laborer phenomenon. University researchers released the first nationwide study of day laborers, based on interviews with 2,660 workers at 264 hiring sites in 20 states and the District of Columbia.'b'The study affirmed that day labor is an entrenched national trend, and that three-fourths of day laborers are here illegally. While that is not surprising, the researchers also said they were disturbed at how treacherous the occupation was -- that the prevalence of wage violations was "incredibly high" and that dangerous job conditions were rampant. More than half of those surveyed said they had been cheated out of wages in the previous two months, and 60 percent said they had lost a week or more of work because of injuries.'b'The study suggested that day labor was only a temporary rung on the economic ladder; 44 percent of those surveyed said they had been day laborers for less than a year, while only 26 percent had been day laborers for more than three years. Though some localities have responded to day laborers by cracking down on contractors, the study found that slightly more laborers had been hired by homeowners than by contractors -- 49 percent to 43 percent.'b'It is interesting to note that the researchers interviewed only workers who gathered at hiring sites. Unfortunately, Long Island -- particularly Suffolk County -- does not have very many of these. Yet the study is solid evidence that providing hiring sites for day laborers is more than just the decent thing to do. It is also a way to bring structure and organization to an ad hoc phenomenon that has long been defined by furtiveness and chaos. Bringing the day laborers out of the fringes will make it easier to enforce labor laws, dampen public anger and hasten the arrival of sensible solutions.'b"In that spirit, we welcome a path-breaking effort announced recently by Mayor David Kapell of Greenport. Struck by the sight of hundreds of Latino worshipers at a recent Christmas Mass, he decided to conduct a census of everyone who lives in his village, whatever their legal status, so that village services and resources could be directed accordingly. It is a sign of decency and leadership to show concern for how the other half lives. Or one-fourth. Or three-eighths. Whatever it is, it's important to know."b"More than a week has passed since the membership of the public transit workers union threw New York's millions of riders another curveball -- just one month after the December strike -- and narrowly voted down the pact its leaders had negotiated. Talks have not resumed. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the state-run body that runs the subway and bus system, has put another offer on the table, a decidedly downgraded version of the rejected pact. Not surprisingly, the union leadership rejected it. More significantly, the M.T.A. petitioned to take the talks to binding arbitration. That's a drastic move, but unless the two parties start talking soon, it might be the best way to avoid the unacceptable, if remote, possibility of another walkout."b"Binding arbitration should be unattractive to both sides. It puts everyone's fate in the hands of a third party. That could be especially bad for the union because its members would be deprived of extras negotiated in the unapproved contract, including large pension rebates."b'For binding arbitration to happen, a state labor board must determine that bargaining is at an impasse. Before that leap, though, mediators -- who worked some subtle magic to help bring about the first agreement -- should be given every opportunity to rekindle negotiations on the new offer.'b'Roger Toussaint, the blue-collar union leader, and Peter Kalikow, the well-tailored white-collar M.T.A. chairman, are likely never to have a "walk in the woods" kind of relationship, where great differences might be worked out over a cordial give and take. A mediator\'s nudge to the table could, however, at least get a dialogue started. What\'s needed now is a reworked contract offer that can be sent back to the membership for a vote, and soon.'b'It\'s too bad the union cannot take another vote on the first agreement. No doubt many of the "no" votes were cast in protest -- against Mr. Toussaint\'s leadership, against management, and against the M.T.A. and its record of fiscal mismanagement.'b'But the contract was a good one, with raises better than the rate of inflation, continued retirement at age 55 -- even for new hires -- and sweeteners: a payment totaling some $130 million to members who overpaid into the pension plan, as well as improved health benefits for retirees. The rub was the requirement that employees contribute 1.5 percent toward health insurance. But while there may be a better formula, the contributions are necessary, and a bargain. Most private sector employees pay much more.'b'The current M.T.A. offer preserves the pay increases totaling 10.9 percent. But it reverts to an earlier demand that new workers contribute 6 percent into their pension plan, triple the rate for workers already on the rolls. There would be no pension rebates and no paid holiday for Martin Luther King, Jr., Day. The union interpreted the offer as a slap. More likely, it is a strategic starting point for consideration by an arbitrator. Union leaders will have their opportunity to make demands, too, before a binding settlement can be mandated.'b"As the reality of binding arbitration settles in, workers may feel less inclined to spurn an amended offer. The union's sharp internal divisions led to a razor-thin margin on the contract vote: nearly 22,500 votes were cast (of some 33,000 union members), and the agreement lost by just 7 votes. Though Mr. Toussaint blamed hard-core dissidents, there is an undeniable schism that could endanger the approval of any future contract put to a vote."b'Mr. Toussaint, who in earlier days was a dissident himself, must achieve a workable peace with the rebels and do a better job of explaining the perils ahead if a contract cannot be brought to a member vote.'b'The M.T.A., meanwhile, should take the temperature of its workers, who may only feel further frustration if they are denied a final say on their contract. Binding arbitration may ultimately be necessary, but only as a true last resort.'b"LIKE some television reality show, Nassau County, home to Levittown and other pioneering suburban developments, is in for a supreme makeover in the coming decade. The county's plans for the so-called Nassau Hub, which stretches from EAB Plaza to Roosevelt Field and encompasses the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum site in Uniondale, represent one of the boldest efforts anywhere for reinventing the outdated form of development that is the American suburb."b"Yet this makeover will not come easy. Because of the usual controversies over scale and scope, Nassau's vision for stronger downtowns, diverse neighborhoods, next-generation housing, open space and expanded public transit will be difficult to achieve. (Already, the county executive, Thomas Suozzi, has put off a decision that was expected this month on which of the four coliseum site proposals he will approve.)"b'The brutal fact, however, is that Nassau County and many other older, inner-ring "first" suburbs built after the end of World War II have little choice economically and physically if they want to survive and thrive.'b"Currently, many first suburbs, which are collectively home to about 20 percent of the nation's population, are struggling to attract and retain younger residents. Meanwhile, many of these suburbs share an economic and physical landscape that is unsustainable: low densities, a car-dependent culture and housing restricted to single-family residences."b'Nassau reflects these realities. And the question for Nassau residents is this: Do you want a future of higher taxes, lower services and a noncompetitive economy? Because that is what the county faces unless it can reverse decades of stagnation and begin to attract and retain entry-level workers.'b"Once one of the nation's fastest-growing areas, Nassau is now down to about 1.33 million people, according to the 2000 census, about 95,000 below its population peak in 1970. The number of elderly residents is more than twice what it was in 1960, while the number of children has fallen sharply."b"In addition to these challenging demographic trends, the tax rate in Nassau remains very high; Nassau is tied with Suffolk for having the second-highest tax rate in the state. And because of restrictive land use regulations coupled with close proximity to New York City, Nassau joins places like Westchester, New Jersey's Bergen and Fairfield in Connecticut as counties with some of the most expensive housing in the nation. The average housing value in each of these counties is more than double the national average."b"No wonder young residents are fleeing these places in search of housing that is affordable. (In Nassau, the median house price is more than $400,000. That's nearly five times the average income, and housing experts recommend 2.5 times as the limit for affordability.)"b'For first suburbs like those in Nassau to flourish, they need to reinvent themselves.'b'At a minimum, they should focus on plans that identify important pockets and corridors of urbanity where they can encourage growth. By substantially increasing densities in appropriate places, first suburbs can create an environment where transit and greater housing options thrive.'b"Arlington County in Virginia, just outside Washington, provides a clear illustration for how a first suburb can regenerate itself and remain healthy and vital, yet preserve its suburban style. Arlington has concentrated development along its Metro rail system in a way that avoids many of the problems of conventional suburban growth. For instance, Arlington's Metro riders generally walk to the stations, averting the traffic jams that result when commuters' only choice is to park and ride."b"And despite the costs that additional development brings, Arlington's classic suburban neighborhoods have been well served by this urban experiment. For instance, the increase in tax-generating properties means that a third of the county's real estate revenue comes from just 8 percent of its land area. Arlington's tax rate is the lowest in the region."b"Arlington is not alone in remaking itself for high value growth. Lakewood, Colo.; Washington's King County; and Dallas County in Texas have all embraced transit-oriented development as a means to economic prosperity and quality communities."b'Interested civic, corporate and political leaders in Nassau should drive south down Interstate 95 to Arlington. There they will see firsthand the tangible benefits that can accrue to a place that embraces a plan for remaking itself and sticks to it. Critics will note that Arlington is not a cluster of local jurisdictions, as is the case in Nassau. But that is precisely why a countywide vision is so important.'b'Remaking first suburbs will not happen overnight. It will require a new generation of government and business leaders who are willing to risk political and private capital. It will also demand a rethinking of obsolete, outdated suburban attitudes toward density, urbanity and diversity.'b'So the message to Nassau: you have no time to waste. Pick a proposal for the coliseum site, embrace the new vision and get the Hub and Nassau moving again.'b'Op-Ed Contributors Bruce Katz is a vice president of the Brookings Institution and director of its Metropolitan Policy Program. Robert Puentes is a fellow at the program.'b'WHEN it comes to fighting fraud, New York State is 143 years behind the times.'b'In 1863, President Abraham Lincoln signed the False Claims Act, allowing ordinary people to blow the whistle on fraudulent federal contractors by suing them on behalf of taxpayers. The so-called Lincoln Law gave whistleblowers an incentive to fight fraud by rewarding them with a portion of recovered stolen money.'b"Since Congress modernized it in 1986, the Lincoln Law has become the federal government's single most important tool in combating fraud. According to Taxpayers Against Fraud, a public interest group, federal whistleblower lawsuits have recovered $17 billion and saved billions more by deterring corrupt practices."b"Yet New York's Legislature has been unwilling or unable to pass a False Claims Act to combat fraud against state programs, even though California, Florida, Texas and more than a dozen other states have done so, recovering tens of millions of dollars for their taxpayers. Just last month, Congress, which allows states to keep a percentage of Medicaid dollars recovered through federal whistleblower suits, approved a 10 percent penalty on states without False Claims Acts -- a penalty New York can ill afford."b"New Yorkers deserve better. A strong False Claims Act would allow anyone with inside information about a major scheme bilking the state to secretly file a case against the perpetrators. The case would be referred to the attorney general, who could take over the suit, dismiss it, settle it or allow the whistleblower to prosecute it on the state's behalf. A guilty party would pay the state treble damages plus additional fines, and could be barred as a government contractor. The amount of money the whistleblower gets would depend on the value of the information provided, and the time and expense he or she spent on the lawsuit. Crucially, the law would prohibit employers from retaliating against whistleblowers for exposing fraudulent practices."b'Although a False Claims Act would apply to all state spending, health care fraud best illustrates the need for the Legislature to act now.'b'For the same reason that Willie Sutton famously robbed banks, big-money schemes aim at Medicaid and other state health care programs. A former state investigator recently estimated that Medicaid fraud alone costs New Yorkers as much as $18 billion a year.'b"Health care fraud is particularly pernicious in New York because Gov. George Pataki's Department of Health, which is charged with referring Medicaid fraud cases to the attorney general for prosecution, has been ineffective. Health Department regulators last year discovered only 37 cases of suspected fraud out of 400 million claims and audited just 95 healthcare providers out of 140,000."b"Complicated health care schemes are similar to the complicated Wall Street schemes that Attorney General Eliot Spitzer (whose office I will be running for) investigated because often only insiders can detect them. It turns out that health care workers like doctors, nurses, accountants and administrators are perfectly positioned to be health care fraud inspectors. The genius of a False Claims Act is that it gives workers strong incentives to expose fraud and strong protections against employer retaliation. It also gives health care unions an incentive to educate members how to spot, expose and prosecute health care fraud. If New York had its own law, it would better empower New York's attorney general to aggressively fight fraud against Medicaid and other joint federal and state programs in the face of federal inaction."b"Opponents of whistleblower suits claim they invite frivolous and abusive litigation. To no one's surprise, these opponents tend to be big health care conglomerates and drug companies that are used to receiving a lot of government money with little government oversight. (They are also a major source of campaign contributions.) The truth, though, is that the attorney general's ability to dismiss a whistleblower-initiated lawsuit basically eliminates the risk of frivolous or abusive litigation."b"In addition, empowering patients and health care workers to expose health care fraud isn't just a lifeline for the state's struggling Medicaid program, but also a lifesaver for Medicaid patients. For example, it's a fraud to bill Medicaid for faulty medical equipment, improper medical procedures or shipments of medicine with false expiration dates. Combating such practices can save patients from dangerous health care providers and businesses."b"Lincoln knew government must be accountable to taxpayers, and that ordinary taxpayers can help. He was right. It's the status quo in Albany that's wrong."b'Op-Ed Contributor Mark Green is the former public advocate for New York City.'b"IN October 1995, I was part of a team of investigative reporters and editors that exposed City Hall's acute mismanagement of New York's child protection system during the first 21 months of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's administration. The city agency, then called the Child Welfare Administration, was supposed to respond to reports of abuse and neglect, but it was in shambles."b'Records were not computerized. Case files were piled five feet high on the office floors. Investigators were demoralized and overwhelmed, each responsible for 30 or more cases and often not finishing their investigations on schedule. Some of them, working in the South Bronx where drug addiction plagued far too many poor parents, had caseloads of as much as 60.'b'Early in his first term, Mayor Giuliani cut $200 million from the child protection system as part of a campaign to rein in government spending on social services. The agency lost nearly 2,000 employees, including 100 veteran child protection investigators. Long since overwhelmed by the crack epidemic, the dysfunctional system only became weaker.'b'In November 1995, a month after we published our report, 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo was beaten to death by her mother on the Lower East Side after caseworkers, school employees and others had failed to intervene. The public was outraged. The news media covered the story for months. The child protection system was undeniably in crisis.'b"A chagrined Mayor Giuliani quickly spun off the child protection system from the city's welfare programs, created the Administration for Children's Services and dedicated himself to far-reaching reforms."b"This month, the news media believe they are in the thick of a similar child abuse crisis. Their supercharged coverage leads evening newscasts and has been on the front of newspapers repeatedly since the horrific story of 7-year-old Nixzmary Brown's death broke on Jan. 11. But this time, there is no data to support claims that the city's child protection system is a mess."b"Of course the Brown case is appalling. City investigators, school employees, relatives, a doctor and a pair of detectives all had the chance to help this little girl, and none effectively intervened. In the aftermath, Mayor Michael Bloomberg has responded appropriately by seeking to strengthen supervision of investigations, improve caseworker training and overcome poor communication between schools and Children's Services."b"But I've watched for several years as professionals have reconstructed New York's child welfare system, and the news media are wrong to oversell this story and demand radical change. The system today isn't perfect: rigid rules sometimes inhibit good casework, the Family Courts remain a mess and the city desperately needs more and better services for families struggling with poverty, health problems and drugs and alcohol. But things have improved."b"Today, child protection workers are better paid and better trained than in most other American cities. Supervisors are far more likely to have a master's degree than 10 years ago. They have better tools at their disposal, including consultants in substance abuse, mental health and domestic violence. Agency officials receive comprehensive weekly data summaries, detailing trends in different parts of the city and ensuring that deadlines are met and procedures are followed. The platform for a truly excellent child protection system has been built, even if it is not yet fully in place."b'The uncomfortable truth is that even with crime rates at record lows in the city, family violence remains sickeningly common. We have done far too little to prevent domestic violence or to educate citizens about how to intervene when someone is the target of extreme malevolence behind closed doors. There are between 60 and 80 "family-related homicides" per year in New York City. Some of the dead are wives or girlfriends. Some are children, like Nixzmary. Most of the perpetrators are men -- boyfriends, husbands, stepfathers.'b'In 2002, there were 76 such killings. In 2003, there were 64. In 2004, there were 67. And in 2005, there were 68.'b"The child protection system is just one part of our city's frontline defense against such cruelty. Its investigators spend their days and nights in neighborhoods knocking on doors and interviewing children, family members, neighbors, doctors and school teachers. Each of them takes on a half-dozen new cases each month, on average. It's not an overwhelming number, but they have to respond to each report within 24 hours and then file a final decision within 60 days about whether the report was accurate."b"These investigators work in tense circumstances and in neighborhoods where residents are not always responsive or respectful. Remarkably, in tens of thousands of interactions every year, this system works. Occasionally it doesn't, and the consequences are terrifying: this month, people with the power to intervene missed the fact that a little girl was in mortal danger."b"But this isn't 1995."b"Op-Ed Contributor Andrew White is the director of the New School's Center for New York City Affairs and editor of Child Welfare Watch."b'Not long ago, a New York lobbyist could give a New York lawmaker tickets, meals, gifts and such, as long as each one was worth less than $75. That was the way the $75 gift ban worked in Albany. As explained by Blair Horner, a public advocate and longtime thorn in the side of the New York State Legislature, a lobbyist could buy a state politician breakfast for $74.99, lunch for $74.99 and dinner for $74.99, and still be under the radar. While some people shrink from the idea of paying such prices -- at least for breakfast -- it is considered par for the course in Albany (think strawberries, scrambled eggs and Champagne).'b"Now, however, Albany's political community can mark off the $74.99 caper as last year's trick. David Grandeau, the state lobbying commission's executive director, has read the law a little differently and has started warning lobbyists that they will be in trouble if they give a legislator more than $75 worth of gifts per year."b'This is good news for the public, since these lobbyists were clearly buying more than lunch.'b'Naturally, as soon as word got out about the new gift rules, there was an instant scramble by some legislators and restaurateurs to restore the looser requirements. The $75-per-year limit on gifts should stay intact. And instead of trying to roll back this modest reform, the lobbying commission, the Legislature and Gov. George Pataki should take it forward.'b"Indeed, with the lobbying scandal in Washington, and a local electorate demanding a cleaner State Legislature, New York's politicians should ban gifts from lobbyists altogether."b'This is not a revolutionary idea: it has even been proposed by Mr. Pataki and recommended by the State Senate. Of course, once it is in place, there will still be other scandalous ways for lobbyists to twist the system to their own purposes and funnel tons of money into political campaigns.'b"This being an election year, it's a good time to clean up all the easy money that goes to New York lawmakers -- both as gifts and as political contributions."b'HOW does The New York Times go about fitting "All the News That\'s Fit to Print" into the paper?'b'The Times has held its annual allocation of space devoted to journalism steady for several years, at a level that appears to reflect a balancing of cost considerations and how much time readers have to consume news. The paper hews to no set ratio of news to advertising space. Whether ads dwindle or grow, the so-called news hole remains roughly the same.'b"John Geddes is a managing editor who keeps a tight rein on the space budget, as it's known in the newsroom. How space is juggled to stay within the annual allocation can influence how much coverage readers get on topics ranging from Hurricane Katrina to weddings. Here are edited excerpts of our recent discussion of the process.   BYRON CALAME"b'Public Editor: How does The Times decide how much space to devote to news in the weekday paper?'b"Mr. Geddes: Naturally it depends on what happens on any given day. Let's divide the paper into two. The feature sections have standing quotas -- a standing space allotment. The hard news sections, roughly the A Section, Metro, Biz Day [Business Day] and Sports, have space allotments they begin each day with. These vary from 14 columns up to 75 to 80 columns, depending on the section."b'Starting from that, we either add or subtract, based on what news has happened. Every day we have a notional six columns, about a page of space, that we can apportion based on need among the hard news sections.'b'Q. What about the planning for the whole year?'b"A. We don't look at space and measure ourselves as having failed or succeeded on any metric other than our budget for the year. Over the course of the year, with the ebbs and flows of news, with ups and downs and seasonality, our goal is to wind up at the end of a year within our overall budget. And we did last year."b'Q. Can you give us a rough idea of the average number of columns devoted to news on weekdays over all of last year?'b'A. On Monday through Saturday, depending on the day of the week, we give our readers between 200 and 325 columns of journalism, stock quotes and service items like the weather and television listings. In the Sunday paper, we run from 700 to 775 columns.'b'Q. What about the four basic news sections?'b"A. The four sections -- on, say, a Wednesday -- run about 200 columns. That doesn't include things like the 12 columns for the Editorial page, because that's not within our news budget."b'Q. How would that compare to a Wednesday five years ago?'b"A. About the same. There has been no increase or decrease, except for a contraction in stock tables, in the years I've been putting together the news sections of the paper."b'Q. What would cause the news hole budget for 2007, once you get closer to it, to be raised?'b"A. We think about it and review it. But the fact that it hasn't changed in eight years or so isn't just a matter of economics. It is also a matter of what space we think we need to meet the readers' requirements for presenting the news we think the reader needs on a given day. Would some reporters like to have more space to write their stories? Probably. Do we think that's a service to the readers? In most cases, probably not."b'Q. How much of an idea can you give us about the amount of news content in a few feature sections -- the weekly Escapes, for instance?'b"A. Escapes has about 32 columns, on a Friday. The feature sections vary, but they vary by lesser amounts than the news sections. Those sections can be planned well ahead and don't have to adjust for breaking news. We've added some columns to the feature sections, mainly in the arts, and, of course, we began Escapes. But that's about it. With the cost of newsprint, we have tried to be constrained."b'Q. Tell us about the Sunday New York Times. How is it different?'b'A. We have a budget, but we keep that separate from the daily because there are different rhythms to Sunday. The Sunday sections all have a budget. Sunday Styles has about 44 columns. Arts &amp; Leisure is about 85 columns.'b'Q. Turning to the daily process and the four news sections, what if they feel like something is really special today?'b"A. The day, in terms of space, begins about 11 o'clock when one of our senior editors goes to each of the individual desks and asks, what do you have? Do you need any space? Is there anything of note?"b"That is brought to me or whoever's doing space that day at about 11:30. And we try to pass judgment. Is this meritorious? How do we stand with our budget? Do I have five long stories for which space is being requested for tomorrow? Is that too much for the reader? Is there an option to hold for another day, or is there news that's forcing this to run right now?"b'We balance all those things. And then we give that request for space to our colleagues in production. They take the news requirements and the advertising requirements, combine them to make up the whole paper.'b'Q. What if things happen during the evening?'b'A. We have two options. Until roughly 5 p.m., we can increase the size of the paper if news happens. That is the tipping point because our pressrooms by then need to plan for the size of the paper. After that, options for increasing the paper are much more limited.'b'Chief Justice Rehnquist died late on a Saturday night. We stopped the press and we pulled out an ad and put in a two-page obit. And then we did other juggling to get in a news story.'b'Q. When editors know a big series like "Class in America" is coming, how do you make room for it?'b'A. We cut space in sections to build up a bank so we can husband the space the class series might need. That we knew about. But, naturally, something like Katrina took us by surprise and demanded a whole lot of space for a number of months. So in the ensuing months, we said, look, this story concerns us all. It concerns Business; it concerns National; it concerns Science; it concerns all of us.'b"We said we're going to take two columns from each section's budget and devote it to a generic Katrina pool for the remainder of the year. And so your other news may be a little tighter with the caveat that if news happens, we will respond and give you added space. But on a day-to-day basis, we expect you to keep your stories a little tighter in your sections to bank space to cover Katrina."b"This is how we've done it all along. We received no extra space for 9/11. We received no extra space for the Iraq war. We're all doing this within our budget. It is a zero-sum game. If something is more important, something else may be a little less important, a little less deserving of space."b'Q. One subject that is sensitive with a lot of readers is the amount of space devoted to weddings. How do you determine that?'b"A. Well, there's seasonality in weddings too. Roughly, over the course of the year, we budget about 12 columns a week for the weddings. That budget, like other things, goes up and down with the seasons. It increases by three to six columns during peak wedding season in the summer. Would all our readers perhaps like all their offspring to be in the wedding announcements? We'd like to think so, but like other things in the paper, we have to cover it on the basis of news. What's the import? What is the wider world interested in? And what does this tell us about the world we're living in? Newspapering, including space decisions, always includes triage."b'Q. Is it always triage, even on a normal day?'b"A. Even on a normal day. Remember, journalism is about telling me what's important and telling me what's important in the order of its importance. It's always a compared-to-what. Something happened on Day One, when nothing's going on in the world, it may merit one column of coverage. The same thing happening on a very busy day may merit an inch of coverage."b"It is always a compared-to-what because we're trying to capture what's important today in a given space. And we're trying to relay that to readers using the relative size of the story and the coverage as an indicator of importance."b"Chappaqua - I GREW up riding my bike to school. Starting in fourth grade, I'd pedal my blue Schwinn almost two miles from my home near Scarsdale village, arriving at Fox Meadow School in time to lock my bike to a rack by the playground and scurry up to class."b"That was the early 1970's, when children cycled all over Westchester's suburbs, on the same roads that parents drove their station wagons. We rode to school and to friends' houses. We were taught to be careful and were able to cross busy thoroughfares like Crane Road without incident. Our two-wheelers gave us a whiff of independence, and we thrived on our own."b'Fast forward more than 30 years to Chappaqua, where I now live. Children in Chappaqua rarely use bikes to get from here to there. News-media-driven fears about accidents and kidnappings have created a culture in which children now rely on parents to get everywhere. We even drive them to the North County Trailway so they can ride their bikes for recreation.'b'My eldest son, Jacob, a seventh-grader at Robert E. Bell Middle School, loves cycling, be it down the lawn, around a nearby cul-de-sac or on the trailway. But he never considered riding to school, in the heart of the hamlet, about two miles downhill from our home.'b"Instead, I rouse Jacob each morning at 6:45 so he can make the bus at 7:15, which delivers him to Bell for homeroom by 7:50. But this past spring, I started to wonder if he might want to ride his bike to school and experience the sort of independence that is largely absent in the supervised lives of today's children. Besides, the ride would take only 15 minutes, giving my growing adolescent a few more minutes of sleep."b'Little did I realize how old-fashioned my views of childhood had become since those days happily pedaling to Fox Meadow. At Bell, I discovered that it was rare for students to ride to school, and that there was no place to store a bike for those willing to make the trek. Evidently, the bike rack, which had been slammed into too many times by parents dropping their children off at school, had been removed several years ago and never replaced.'b"Eager to make Chappaqua more bike friendly, I started looking for information about youth bicycle safety programs. In my research, I discovered a new federal program called Safe Routes to School, which helps communities develop initiatives to encourage children to ride and walk to school. According to the program's Web site, in 1969, about half of all students in the United States walked or bicycled to school. Today, that number is down to 15 percent. Federal policymakers see Safe Routes as a way to fight both childhood obesity and our reliance on fossil fuels."b"The program, which was established as part of the federal transportation reauthorization bill, provides state financing for communities that adopt the safe routes program. For instance, according to the principal planner of Westchester County's Department of Transportation, New York State has access to $36 million over six years. This money can be used for community projects like studying of local traffic patterns, building safer street crossings and arranging workshops to encourage children to walk and bicycle to school."b'When I mentioned my interest in starting a Safe Routes to School program in Chappaqua to friends, some were concerned about safety, but most, nostalgic about their childhoods spent cycling all over town, thought the idea was worth pursuing.'b"But school administrators and town officials, I discovered, felt differently. Even when I told them that a consultant to help set up the program wouldn't cost the town money, and that we could tap federal funds that were just waiting to be used for road-safety improvements and educational workshops, they were noncommittal. Encouraging children to walk to school seemed plausible to them, but bicycling was out of the question because they felt it just wasn't safe."b'Of course, walking is safer, but walking is really an option only for children who live near the school. For this program to reach critical mass, we need to encourage both walking and bicycling.'b"Living is filled with risk and growing up involves developing strategies to cope with it. If we continue to raise our children in a risk-free community, then we're going to have a lot of risk-adverse adults. Chappaqua should take advantage of a federal program that could not only make our town a safer place for children, but also improve our roads. And maybe along the way, we'll encourage our children to learn what independence is all about."b'Op-Ed Contributor Robin Winter, director of marketing and public relations at an engineering firm, is on the board of the Westchester Cycle Club.'b'A bit over a week ago, President Bush and his men promised to provide the legal, constitutional and moral justifications for the sort of warrantless spying on Americans that has been illegal for nearly 30 years. Instead, we got the familiar mix of political spin, clumsy historical misinformation, contemptuous dismissals of civil liberties concerns, cynical attempts to paint dissents as anti-American and pro-terrorist, and a couple of big, dangerous lies.'b'The first was that the domestic spying program is carefully aimed only at people who are actively working with Al Qaeda, when actually it has violated the rights of countless innocent Americans. And the second was that the Bush team could have prevented the 9/11 attacks if only they had thought of eavesdropping without a warrant.'b'Sept. 11 could have been prevented. This is breathtakingly cynical. The nation\'s guardians did not miss the 9/11 plot because it takes a few hours to get a warrant to eavesdrop on phone calls and e-mail messages. They missed the plot because they were not looking. The same officials who now say 9/11 could have been prevented said at the time that no one could possibly have foreseen the attacks. We keep hoping that Mr. Bush will finally lay down the bloody banner of 9/11, but Karl Rove, who emerged from hiding recently to talk about domestic spying, made it clear that will not happen -- because the White House thinks it can make Democrats look as though they do not want to defend America. "President Bush believes if Al Qaeda is calling somebody in America, it is in our national security interest to know who they\'re calling and why," he told Republican officials. "Some important Democrats clearly disagree."'b'Mr. Rove knows perfectly well that no Democrat has ever said any such thing -- and that nothing prevented American intelligence from listening to a call from Al Qaeda to the United States, or a call from the United States to Al Qaeda, before Sept. 11, 2001, or since. The 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act simply required the government to obey the Constitution in doing so. And FISA was amended after 9/11 to make the job much easier.'b'Only bad guys are spied on. Bush officials have said the surveillance is tightly focused only on contacts between people in this country and Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups. Vice President Dick Cheney claimed it saved thousands of lives by preventing attacks. But reporting in this paper has shown that the National Security Agency swept up vast quantities of e-mail messages and telephone calls and used computer searches to generate thousands of leads. F.B.I. officials said virtually all of these led to dead ends or to innocent Americans. The biggest fish the administration has claimed so far has been a crackpot who wanted to destroy the Brooklyn Bridge with a blowtorch -- a case that F.B.I. officials said was not connected to the spying operation anyway.'b"The spying is legal. The secret program violates the law as currently written. It's that simple. In fact, FISA was enacted in 1978 to avoid just this sort of abuse. It said that the government could not spy on Americans by reading their mail (or now their e-mail) or listening to their telephone conversations without obtaining a warrant from a special court created for this purpose. The court has approved tens of thousands of warrants over the years and rejected a handful."b'As amended after 9/11, the law says the government needs probable cause, the constitutional gold standard, to believe the subject of the surveillance works for a foreign power or a terrorist group, or is a lone-wolf terrorist. The attorney general can authorize electronic snooping on his own for 72 hours and seek a warrant later. But that was not good enough for Mr. Bush, who lowered the standard for spying on Americans from "probable cause" to "reasonable belief" and then cast aside the bedrock democratic principle of judicial review.'b"Just trust us. Mr. Bush made himself the judge of the proper balance between national security and Americans' rights, between the law and presidential power. He wants Americans to accept, on faith, that he is doing it right. But even if the United States had a government based on the good character of elected officials rather than law, Mr. Bush would not have earned that kind of trust. The domestic spying program is part of a well-established pattern: when Mr. Bush doesn't like the rules, he just changes them, as he has done for the detention and treatment of prisoners and has threatened to do in other areas, like the confirmation of his judicial nominees. He has consistently shown a lack of regard for privacy, civil liberties and judicial due process in claiming his sweeping powers. The founders of our country created the system of checks and balances to avert just this sort of imperial arrogance."b'The rules needed to be changed. In 2002, a Republican senator -- Mike DeWine of Ohio -- introduced a bill that would have done just that, by lowering the standard for issuing a warrant from probable cause to "reasonable suspicion" for a "non-United States person." But the Justice Department opposed it, saying the change raised "both significant legal and practical issues" and may have been unconstitutional. Now, the president and Attorney General Alberto Gonzales are telling Americans that reasonable suspicion is a perfectly fine standard for spying on Americans as well as non-Americans -- and they are the sole judges of what is reasonable.'b'So why oppose the DeWine bill? Perhaps because Mr. Bush had already secretly lowered the standard of proof -- and dispensed with judges and warrants -- for Americans and non-Americans alike, and did not want anyone to know.'b'War changes everything. Mr. Bush says Congress gave him the authority to do anything he wanted when it authorized the invasion of Afghanistan. There is simply nothing in the record to support this ridiculous argument.'b'The administration also says that the vote was the start of a war against terrorism and that the spying operation is what Mr. Cheney calls a "wartime measure." That just doesn\'t hold up. The Constitution does suggest expanded presidential powers in a time of war. But the men who wrote it had in mind wars with a beginning and an end. The war Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney keep trying to sell to Americans goes on forever and excuses everything.'b"Other presidents did it. Mr. Gonzales, who had the incredible bad taste to begin his defense of the spying operation by talking of those who plunged to their deaths from the flaming twin towers, claimed historic precedent for a president to authorize warrantless surveillance. He mentioned George Washington, Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt. These precedents have no bearing on the current situation, and Mr. Gonzales's timeline conveniently ended with F.D.R., rather than including Richard Nixon, whose surveillance of antiwar groups and other political opponents inspired FISA in the first place. Like Mr. Nixon, Mr. Bush is waging an unpopular war, and his administration has abused its powers against antiwar groups and even those that are just anti-Republican."b'The Senate Judiciary Committee is about to start hearings on the domestic spying. Congress has failed, tragically, on several occasions in the last five years to rein in Mr. Bush and restore the checks and balances that are the genius of American constitutional democracy. It is critical that it not betray the public once again on this score.'b"I do not own a BlackBerry or a pager. I don't chat or instant-message or text-message. My cellphone could connect to the Web if I let it, but I don't. I don't gamble on the Internet nor do I game on it (or on any other electronic device). And yet I'm starting to twitch."b"I have three everyday telephone numbers, not counting Skype and a calling card, and two fax numbers. I have six working e-mail addresses, as well as a few no longer in use. A couple of weeks ago I started writing a blog for The Times. Part of my job, as a blogger, is to read and approve the publication of readers' comments. That is the equivalent of another form of e-mail. There are probably half a dozen Really Simple Syndication tools on my computer, and one or another of them is always unfurling the latest ribbon of news in the background. It is astonishing how old the morning's headlines seem by evening."b"Back in the dial-up days, computer users made brief forays onto a bulletin board or some outpost of the primitive Internet, all the while clocking connection time in order to keep costs down. Going online was like driving a Stanley Steamer -- better for scaring horses and wowing the youth than for long-distance hauling. There was always a slightly neurotic edge to it. You could feel the seconds ticking away while nothing happened. But nowadays turning on the computer is synonymous with being online. Who turns the computer off? It's rarely worth severing that digital link. For some of us, the computer has become less and less a place to work and more and more a place to await messages from the ether, like hopeful spiritualists."b"I thought I was a fairly temperate user of computers. But in the past year or so I have become addicted to e-mail. I confess it. You probably know the signs. Do you tell your e-mail program to check for messages automatically every two minutes -- and then disbelieve it when it comes up empty? Have you learned to hesitate before answering a new message so it doesn't look as though you were hunched over the keyboard, waiting? Do you secretly think of lunch as a time for your inbox to fill up? But the clearest sign of e-mail addiction is simply to ask yourself, what is the longest you've gone without checking your e-mail in the past two months? Anything longer than a broken night's sleep is good."b'I blame my e-mail addiction, in part, on the United States Postal Service. Seeing the mail lady pull up to our rural mailbox in her red station wagon with the flashing amber light on top is one of the high points of my day, whether there is anything "good" in the mail or not. (The "goodness" of mail is another question entirely.) When you think about it, the postal system is a remarkable thing, even in this new universe of instant-delivery systems. Its genius is this: The mail comes only once a day. All that expectation gathered into a single visit! And once-a-day-ness is built right into the system. I try to imagine the mail lady bringing every piece of mail to our mailbox as she gets it. In fact, that\'s exactly what she does, because the mail shows up only once a day at the local post office.'b'I suppose I could tell my e-mail program to check for mail on a postal schedule -- once a day -- although minutes are the only intervals the software understands. But that would defeat the logic of e-mail, which is meant to arrive seriatim -- hence, its addictive punch. The principle of snail mail is infrequency; the principle of e-mail is frequency. The real question is, what is the frequency for?'b"I think of e-mail as a continuing psychology experiment that studies the effect on humans of abrupt, frequently repeated stimuli -- often pleasurable, sometimes not, but always with the positive charge that comes from seeing new mail in the inbox. So far, the experiment has revealed, in me, the synaptic responses of a squirrel. It is a truism of our time that we now have shorter attention spans than ever before. I don't think that is true. What we have now are electronic media that can pulse at the actual rate of human thought. We have the distinct discomfort of seeing our neural pace reflected in the electronic world around us."b"Amid all that is wasteful, distracting, irrelevant and downright evil about e-mail, there is also this. We carry dozens of people, sometimes hundreds, around with us in our heads. They pass in and out of our thoughts as quickly as thought itself. E-mail is a way to gather these people -- so many of them scattered across the globe -- into the immediacy of our lives in a way that makes even a phone call feel highly formalized. It is the nearness of e-mail, the conversations it creates, that is addicting as much as the minute-by-minute stimuli. I try to remember that when I am getting twitchy, when I start wondering whether the mail server is down again. I tell myself that I'm just listening for a chorus of voices, a chorus of friends."b"Though we don't know the final figures, we do know that the United States set a record for foreign debt in 2005. Through November, last year's trade deficit had already exceeded the deficit posted for all of 2004, itself a record."b'The trade gap is financed by foreign lenders, mainly central banks in Asia and offshore hedge funds. Ditto most of the federal budget deficit, $319 billion last year. Because America has so far been spared the worst effects of overborrowing -- a sharply falling dollar and spiking interest rates -- the Bush administration sees no cause for alarm, suggesting instead that foreigners will be honored to keep lending us whatever we need, on our terms, whenever we need it.'b'But absent policy changes to curb its borrowing, America cannot escape the consequences of its debt indefinitely. The effects may be sudden or gradual, but either way, they mean a weaker economy than would otherwise be the case.'b"The dollar, which theoretically should have declined under the debt load in 2005, was buoyed last year by foreigners' willingness to park their cash in higher-yielding dollar-based assets while other developed economies sputtered. Investors were also drawn into dollars because of political setbacks in Europe, like the defeat of the European Constitution. And Congress helped to prop up the dollar by offering a one-time tax break that induced many American companies to convert their foreign earnings into hundreds of billions of dollars. But now Germany and Japan are rallying, the tax break has expired for most companies, and the dollar is facing new challenges: China, for instance, recently stated its intention to invest more of the dollars it earns in other currencies."b"For the past few years, the United States' economy has overcome the drag of big deficits, mainly because the housing boom let Americans borrow and spend, despite stagnating wages. But the boom appears to be moderating, a slowdown that will only worsen if America's foreign indebtedness leads to sustained downward pressure on the dollar and upward pressure on interest rates."b"Deeply in debt, individual Americans can't be expected to keep borrowing and spending. And government, also deeply in the red, won't be able to help much. Yet despite an estimated budget deficit of $400 billion this year, further tax cuts still top the Republican agenda."b"New Orleans waits. While some heroic efforts at rebuilding are taking place, hundreds of thousands of residents have put their lives on hold until they know what the government's next steps will be, leaving the shells of their houses as placeholders. But the Bush administration has now rejected the most broadly supported plan for rebuilding communities while offering nothing to take its place."b'It has been five months since Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast and for many the norm is still the claustrophobic new reality of tiny trailers and multiple families crammed into single apartments. Louisiana is trying. You can hear jackhammers pounding and buzz saws whirring on Canal Street in New Orleans. Dedicated workers endure a grinding daily commute from points north, like Baton Rouge, as they try to make the city and the region whole again. But the mission is far from complete and the challenge is beyond the scope of a broken city and a poor state.'b"New Orleans's crisis has little relation to anything the nation has faced in modern memory, and traditional solutions will simply not help. Homeowners -- many very poor people whose houses had been in their families for generations -- had varying degrees of insurance before the disaster. When entire neighborhoods are devastated, their mildewed furniture and drywall piled on the roadsides, it's impossible to tell the people who are well insured to rebuild and hope that the houses all around them will somehow be reclaimed somewhere down the line."b"But the Bush administration refuses to support the plan of Representative Richard Baker, Republican of Louisiana, which would give everyone the capacity to rebuild and which had the backing of the mayor, the governor and the state's Congressional delegation. (To add insult to injury, two days after the White House shot down Mr. Baker's proposal, President Bush suggested at a news conference that Louisiana's problem was the lack of a plan.)"b"Instead of an alternate solution, the president's Katrina czar, Donald Powell, has offered sleight of hand, touting $6.2 billion in development money for Louisiana passed last year by Congress as if it were somehow a substitute. And in an attempt to narrow the scope of the problem, Mr. Powell says the government first needs to care for the roughly 20,000 homeowners without flood insurance who lived outside the federally designated flood plain. The real tally of destroyed or damaged homes in the region is well over 200,000. And the real need is housing for residents, whether they were renters or owners, insured or uninsured, living above the flood plain or trusting the federal government's levees to protect them from storms."b"Perhaps too much emphasis has been placed on the wreckage of poor, low-lying New Orleans neighborhoods like the Lower Ninth Ward. That has sparked the unproductive, blame-the-victim debate revolving around whether people should have lived there in the first place. The Ninth Ward provides a misleading picture of the city, as do the relatively unscathed tourist areas like the French Quarter and the Garden District. Huge swaths of the city have the empty quality of a ghost town. Stores wait for residents to reopen; residents wait to see if neighbors will return. The city and surrounding parishes will not meet Mr. Powell's neat categories, when renters lived beside owners, insured next to uninsured. He is talking like an actuary when a leader is needed to rescue this region."b"Now, Congress has a responsibility to follow its own lead rather than the president's. We were outraged once, shocked at the images on our television sets, at the poverty in our collective backyard and at the devastation of a great city. As the disaster threatens to become permanent, we have every reason to remain so."b"It was a rather chilling bit of news when local authorities in Arlington and Alexandria, Va., announced they were experimenting with warning sirens to alert citizens of impending threats. The idea is that if there's a crisis, there should be some way to reach citizens out walking the streets or touring the shopping malls, temporarily unplugged from all the normal communication devices that pepper daily life with bad news."b'Officials promise neighborhoods will be amply prepared so there\'s no "War of the Worlds" confusion in the experiments, according to The Washington Post. Responses will be tested as the attention-grabbing wails are followed by loud messages about a simulated explosion or weather catastrophe.'b'Sirens and their eerie ululations were part of life for older generations who grew up in the duck-and-cover days of yore. They were ubiquitous during World War II, along with blackout curtains and volunteer air-raid wardens. Then they faded until the Soviet Union tested its first atomic bomb and people began building basement bomb shelters and debating the morality of packing small arms in case of intrusive neighbors.'b'Citizens undoubtedly will cooperate with the new variation on emergency drills, practiced as they are in being herded shoeless through airport security. But a siren, with its primal scream, is a daunting message bearer even in a test. It tells us the bad old days are back.'b"Kurdistan is one of Iraq's most prosperous and westernized regions. And, thanks to an American military shield, it got a 12-year head start on the post-Saddam Hussein era. Kurdistan's leaders ought to be setting a positive example for the rest of the country in expanding the boundaries of political criticism. Instead they are making an example of a Kurdish journalist who dared to criticize leaders of the inaptly named Kurdistan Democratic Party and its secret police, the Parastin."b"Kamal Sayid Qadir has been a harsh and persistent critic of the powerful Barzani family, which runs the K.D.P., and through it, the western part of Kurdistan, like a family fiefdom. Mr. Qadir's language has been intemperate, by conservative Kurdish cultural standards, and his accusations have not always been adequately substantiated. But these journalistic excesses are not unheard of in the rest of the world and are certainly no justification for the 30-year jail sentence he is now serving -- imposed, he says, after a trial that lasted only 15 minutes."b'The K.D.P. is one of two clan-based parties that have carved up the Kurdish region between them, and through their partnership with fundamentalist Shiites hold the balance of power in Iraq as a whole. It was once thought that these secular parties would use their influence to temper the religious extremism and the authoritarian politics of their Shiite partners. So far, it has not been working out that way.'b"Mr. Qadir is not the only Kurdish journalist to complain of intimidation by the K.D.P.'s secret police. And there have been problems elsewhere as well. Two journalists face prison terms in east central Iraq for criticizing a provincial governor. In the south, fundamentalist Shiite militias enforce their own version of Islamic mores with the full support of local governmental authorities."b"Iraq's elected leaders have no legitimate reason to fear an uninhibited press. But Iraqis have reason to worry about leaders who lock up their critics."b"Austin, Tex. - CAN Enron happen again? Yes. Does this mean our corporate governance system isn't doing enough to deter fraud? Not necessarily."b'Fraud happens. The recent collapse of Refco, the futures broker, is a case in point. In August, Refco raised $583 million in an initial public offering. Two months later, Refco announced that a company owing it $430 million was controlled by its chief executive and that its financial statements should no longer be relied upon. A week later, Refco was bankrupt.'b"The fraud was crude and huge. There were no difficult-to-comprehend derivatives of the Enron variety. Federal securities law had imposed stringent due diligence responsibilities on Refco's directors and underwriters to ensure accuracy in the I.P.O. disclosure materials. In contrast, no such responsibilities applied to Enron's directors or bankers because no public offerings were involved. While Enron boasted of excellence and integrity, Refco warned investors of deficiencies in its internal controls. Market discipline, like the other mechanisms, failed to deter fraud."b"Well, maybe fraud isn't completely inevitable. A corporation's assets could be liquidated and the proceeds invested in Treasury bills guarded around the clock. The board could consist solely of former F.B.I. agents. No fraud here."b'Like it or not, a certain amount of fraud is optimal. Shareholders want management to take steps to deter fraud, but they also want management to use the same benefit-cost calculus in determining how much time and money to devote to fraud control that it uses to engage in activities that may enhance profits.'b'Obviously, shareholder welfare cannot be the sole touchstone. Corporate fraud hurts not only the shareholders but also, among other things, general market confidence. Through the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other means, it makes sense for government to require more in terms of deterring fraud than may necessarily be optimal for shareholders.'b'Still, there are real costs associated with forcing corporate directors to spend too much time playing sentry. Focusing on fraud diverts directors from activities like choosing and monitoring management, devising compensation systems and offering strategic advice -- all things that are important to shareholder welfare. And as it turns out, concentrating less on fraud control and more on overseeing management may not only enhance corporate performance but can sometimes also reduce fraud.'b"During the Enron trial, which starts today, Kenneth Lay will probably claim that he understood neither the effects nor the intent of key suspect financial arrangements. Let's assume this is true. A board vigorously monitoring Mr. Lay's performance would surely have concluded that anyone who didn't understand these basic matters wasn't qualified for the job (much less worth millions of dollars in compensation)."b'Just think how much fraud might have been deterred if a board had replaced Mr. Lay with someone more qualified.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Henry T. C. Hu is a corporate and securities law professor at the University of Texas Law School.'b"London - IN the debate over whether the National Security Agency's eavesdropping violated the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, we must not lose sight of the fact that the world we entered on 9/11 will require rewriting that statute and other laws. The tiresome pas de deux between rigid civil libertarians in denial of reality and an overaggressive executive branch seemingly heedless of the law, while comforting to partisans of both groups, is not in the national interest."b'Owing to the globalization of telecommunications, many telephone calls between parties in foreign countries or with an American at one end are routed through American networks. By analyzing this traffic, the National Security Agency has been gathering clues to possible terrorist activities.'b'The agency was authorized by the president, we are told, to intercept messages if one of its supervisors believed there was a link to Al Qaeda -- rather than requiring the usual statutory showing before a special court of probable involvement in terrorist activity when one party to the exchange is a "U.S. person" (a person in America or at an American corporation abroad). This would appear contrary to the provisions of the surveillance act.'b"The N.S.A. is our most important intelligence agency. Typically, about 60 percent of the president's daily brief comes from its intercepts. But the agency was created during the cold war to collect against enemy countries, and that war, indeed that kind of war, has now been superseded. Signals intelligence in the 20th century meant intercepting analog signals along dedicated voice channels, connecting two discrete and known target points. In the 21st century, communications are mostly digital, carry billions of bits of data, are dynamically routed in packets to be reassembled and are globally networked."b'Consider that on Sept. 10, 2001, the N.S.A. intercepted two messages: "The match begins tomorrow" and "Tomorrow is zero hour." These were not picked up through surveillance of suspected individuals but from random monitoring of pay phones in areas of Afghanistan where Al Qaeda was active. Not surprisingly, these messages were not translated or disseminated until Sept. 12th.'b'Nor was the fact that we knew the identities of two of the terrorists sufficient to thwart the attack the next day. But had we at the time cross-referenced credit card accounts, frequent-flyer programs and a cellphone number shared by those two men, data mining might easily have picked up on the 17 other men linked to them and flying on the same day at the same time on four flights. Such intelligence collection would not have been based on probable cause, and yet the presence of the hijackers in the country would have qualified them as "U.S. persons."'b'Clearly, "random" information is likely to be useless when it is not linked to surveillance focused on an individual, while that focused intelligence is much less useful when it is not linked to data mining collected in broad surveillance of "U.S. persons."'b'If we agree that the National Security Agency now needs to trace and analyze large volumes of phone and Internet traffic looking for particular patterns and to cross-reference leads, then it seems clear that traditional, specific warrants may sometimes not be appropriate.'b'Furthermore, not only are there presumably conspirators within the United States, but conversations between two foreign persons could be routed, via the Internet, through American switches to give the appearance of a domestic-to-international connection. It is difficult to imagine getting warrants now in such situations, because the standard of probable cause to conclude that the target is a terrorist cannot be met.'b'Indeed, trying to determine just who qualifies as a terrorist agent is the point of the unfocused cross-hatching collection work of the security agency. In such a world, we will need new techniques to protect the identities and privacy of innocent people here and abroad.'b"This is not to play down the damage done to our war aims by the executive branch's repeated appearance of an indifference to law. A president does have an obligation to assess the constitutionality of statutes, but when he secretly decides a measure is unconstitutional and neglects to say so (much less why), he undermines the very system of public consent for which we are fighting. Having said that, we also must not be so absorbed by questions of statutory construction that we ignore the revolutionary political and technological events that are transforming the world in which our laws must function."b'Op-Ed Contributor Philip Bobbitt, a professor at the University of Texas Law School and a former National Security Council senior director, is the author of the forthcoming "Wars Against Terror."'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'"How does one report the facts," asked Rob Corddry on "The Daily Show," "when the facts themselves are biased?" He explained to Jon Stewart, who played straight man, that "facts in Iraq have an anti-Bush agenda," and therefore can\'t be reported.'b'Mr. Corddry\'s parody of journalists who believe they must be "balanced" even when the truth isn\'t balanced continues, alas, to ring true. The most recent example is the peculiar determination of some news organizations to cast the scandal surrounding Jack Abramoff as "bipartisan."'b"Let's review who Mr. Abramoff is and what he did."b'Here\'s how a 2004 Washington Post article described Mr. Abramoff\'s background: "Abramoff\'s conservative-movement credentials date back more than two decades to his days as a national leader of the College Republicans." In the 1990\'s, reports the article, he found his "niche" as a lobbyist "with entree to the conservatives who were taking control of Congress. He enjoys a close bond with [Tom] DeLay."'b'Mr. Abramoff hit the jackpot after Republicans took control of the White House as well as Congress. He persuaded several Indian tribes with gambling interests that they needed to pay vast sums for his services and those of Michael Scanlon, a former DeLay aide. From the same Washington Post article: "Under Abramoff\'s guidance, the four tribes  have also become major political donors. They have loosened their traditional ties to the Democratic Party, giving Republicans two-thirds of the $2.9 million they have donated to federal candidates since 2001, records show."'b"So Mr. Abramoff is a movement conservative whose lobbying career was based on his connections with other movement conservatives. His big coup was persuading gullible Indian tribes to hire him as an adviser; his advice was to give less money to Democrats and more to Republicans. There's nothing bipartisan about this tale, which is all about the use and abuse of Republican connections."b'Yet over the past few weeks a number of journalists, ranging from The Washington Post\'s ombudsman to the "Today" show\'s Katie Couric, have declared that Mr. Abramoff gave money to both parties. In each case the journalists or their news organization, when challenged, grudgingly conceded that Mr. Abramoff himself hasn\'t given a penny to Democrats. But in each case they claimed that this is only a technical point, because Mr. Abramoff\'s clients -- those Indian tribes -- gave money to Democrats as well as Republicans, money the news organizations say he "directed" to Democrats.'b'But the tribes were already giving money to Democrats before Mr. Abramoff entered the picture; he persuaded them to reduce those Democratic donations, while giving much more money to Republicans. A study commissioned by The American Prospect shows that the tribes\' donations to Democrats fell by 9 percent after they hired Mr. Abramoff, while their contributions to Republicans more than doubled. So in any normal sense of the word "directed," Mr. Abramoff directed funds away from Democrats, not toward them.'b"True, some Democrats who received tribal donations before Mr. Abramoff's entrance continued to receive donations after his arrival. How, exactly, does this implicate them in Mr. Abramoff's machinations? Bear in mind that no Democrat has been indicted or is rumored to be facing indictment in the Abramoff scandal, nor has any Democrat been credibly accused of doing Mr. Abramoff questionable favors."b'There have been both bipartisan and purely Democratic scandals in the past. Based on everything we know so far, however, the Abramoff affair is a purely Republican scandal.'b"Why does the insistence of some journalists on calling this one-party scandal bipartisan matter? For one thing, the public is led to believe that the Abramoff affair is just Washington business as usual, which it isn't. The scale of the scandals now coming to light, of which the Abramoff affair is just a part, dwarfs anything in living memory."b"More important, this kind of misreporting makes the public feel helpless. Voters who are told, falsely, that both parties were drawn into Mr. Abramoff's web are likely to become passive and shrug their shoulders instead of demanding reform."b"So the reluctance of some journalists to report facts that, in this case, happen to have an anti-Republican agenda is a serious matter. It's not a stretch to say that these journalists are acting as enablers for the rampant corruption that has emerged in Washington over the last decade."b'Op-Ed Columnist   Correction:  March 3, 2006, Friday  On Jan. 30 I cited an article in The American Prospect that reported that Indian tribes who hired Jack Abramoff had reduced their contributions to Democrats by 9 percent. Dwight Morris, who prepared the study on which the article was based, says on The American Prospect\'s blog that "there is no statistically valid way to calculate this number given the way the data were compiled." The American Prospect was sloppy, and so was I for not checking its methodology.'b'However, Mr. Morris goes on to say this is a minor point because other calculations show "an undeniably Republican shift in giving."'b"Pre-Abramoff, the tribes gave slightly more money to Democrats than to Republicans; post-Abramoff, they gave 70 percent to Republicans, versus only 30 percent to Democrats. In other words, there's nothing bipartisan about the Abramoff scandal."b'First, a quiz: What "vegetable" do American infants and toddlers eat most?'b"Weep, for it's the French fry. A major study conducted by Gerber found that up to one-third of young children don't eat any vegetable daily, but that the French fry is the single most common one they do consume. And among children age 19 months to 24 months, 20 percent eat French fries at least once a day."b"President Bush is slated to discuss health care in his State of the Union address tonight. It's about time: it's scandalous that babies born in the United States are less likely to survive their first year than babies born in Slovenia. But the solutions to the health crisis lie less in reorganizing medical treatment than in improving public health -- such as steering kids away from French fries."b"Think of two of the biggest breakthroughs in improving Americans' health over the last generation or two. They had nothing to do with doctors, but arose from higher cigarette taxes and other efforts to discourage smoking, and from compulsory seatbelts and improvements in auto safety."b'So what can we do? In my last column, I praised Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas for leading a series of initiatives to confront obesity and lack of exercise. Health experts suggest a variety of others (a book by Tom Farley and Deborah Cohen published last year, "Prescription for a Healthy Nation," offers excellent ideas). Building on them, here are my suggestions:'b"Ban soda, potato chips and other unhealthy snacks from American schools, and discourage them in the workplace. It's unforgivable that our schools help to send children on the road to diabetes. Obesity kills far more Americans than heroin does."b"Sell cigarettes only in pharmacies and raise cigarette taxes. Smoking still kills 440,000 Americans a year, including 50,000 nonsmokers. One study found that raising the federal excise tax on cigarettes by 75 cents a pack would generate $13.1 billion in additional revenue per year and cut youth smoking by 13 percent and adult smoking by 3 percent, saving 1.2 million lives. Let's do it."b'Tax junk foods. Some 19 states already impose taxes on particular junk foods, like soda, and a nickel-a-can tax on soft drinks would generate $7 billion in revenues. In particular, we should tax high-fructose corn syrup, which is used as a sweetener in a vast array of products and is a major culprit in the fattening of America.'b'Promote jogging and biking. Since we pay for all the consequences of inactivity (like those heart bypasses), we should encourage exercise. We should build more bicycle paths and turn more streets over to bikers, skaters and pedestrians -- starting with Sixth Avenue in Manhattan.'b'Encourage exercise breaks. Governor Huckabee gives state employees a 30-minute daily "exercise break" that is modeled on the smoking breaks that smokers take. It\'s a good idea.'b'Distribute fruits and veggies to certain low-income people, as Maine does in FarmShare, a potent antipoverty program.'b"Expand P.E. It's ridiculous that schools have been cutting back on P.E. when students need more of it. Likewise, kids should be encouraged to walk to school. When my eldest son attended a Japanese elementary school in Tokyo, the school required him to walk or bike to school beginning in the first grade."b"Design better stairways. The default system for getting from one floor to the next in America (but not the rest of the world) is the elevator. Let's encourage stair use instead, by having new buildings constructed with open and appealing stairs that are actually meant to be used -- while perhaps making elevators dark, dingy and out of the way."b"I'm sure there are other creative approaches. I've thought of subsidies for running shoes, which make more sense than subsidies for corn. And since the average American child spends 24 hours a week sitting in front of a television, how about developing televisions for kids that are powered by Exercycles?"b"Look, personally I'm convinced that we need universal health care based on a single-payer system. But that is not politically feasible now, while a systematic assault on the causes of American ill health could make a big difference."b"Granted, a War on Sloth isn't as dramatic for the Bush administration as a War on Terrorism. And for Democrats, attacking junk food isn't as attention-grabbing as denouncing corruption in Congress. But there is perhaps no area of public policy where it would be easier to save the lives of countless Americans than in promoting public health."b"When President Bush gives his State of the Union address tonight, expect to hear a renewed call for setting the administration's first-term tax cuts in concrete, combined with warnings that letting the cuts expire would retard economic growth. Nothing could be further from the truth."b"As proof of tax cuts' ability to spur the economy, Mr. Bush generally cites productivity growth, job creation and the rise in personal income. Productivity has indeed been stellar, and supply-siders claim that is because tax cuts have led to investment, which led to higher productivity. But business investment has been flat for five years. Meanwhile, the benefits of productivity growth have been concentrated among the wealthy. So tax cuts haven't unleashed investment, but they have contributed to inequality."b"Job growth during the Bush-era recovery has been worse, by far, than in any comparable economic upturn since the 1960's. It would take some 500,000 new jobs a month every month this year just to equal the second worst job-creation record in the modern era. And while working Americans are laboring harder, hourly wages and weekly salaries -- the financial lifeblood of most Americans -- have been flat or falling, after inflation, since the middle of 2003."b'That last inconvenient fact isn\'t likely to stop Mr. Bush from bragging about rising "real after-tax income." Besides paychecks, that much-cited statistic includes things like bonuses, stock dividends and health insurance.'b'Dividends flow mainly to the top 5 percent of the income ladder, and health benefits, while valuable, are increasingly provided in lieu of salary. So the fact that personal income, writ large, is up "by 7 percent since I\'ve been your president," as Mr. Bush boasted recently, isn\'t a measure of what is in most Americans\' pockets. (Besides, a 7 percent gain is hardly worth bragging about, since the average from other comparable recoveries is 12.5 percent.)'b"Mr. Bush bristles at the oft-repeated criticism that cutting taxes on dividends and capital gains mainly benefits the wealthy. That's odd, because the criticism is simply a statement of the obvious, given the facts: almost half of all dividends are earned by people making more than $200,000, and more than half of all capital gains are earned by people with incomes over $1 million."b'Of late, the president has taken to saying that cutting taxes on dividends and capital gains helps "workers in the automobile plant" and the other millions of Americans who own stock through their 401(k) plans. But in truth, when taxes on dividends and capital gains are cut, investing in a 401(k) plan becomes less attractive. That\'s because tax-deferred buildup in a 401(k) is a big part of its allure, but the lower the tax rate, the less valuable the deferral. Investors in 401(k)\'s also lose out when wages and salaries are taxed at higher rates than investments, as they are now and as Mr. Bush wants to ensure they remain. That\'s because money that\'s withdrawn from a 401(k) is taxed like salary, not like investments.'b"In his State of the Union speech, the president will also undoubtedly return to his promise to do something about the deficit, which he often vows to halve by 2009. His audience should remember that this claim assumes minimal spending going forward for Iraq and Afghanistan as well as a continuation of the voracious alternative minimum tax, which everyone in government knows must be reformed. This month Congress's budget agency forecast that if the tax cuts are made permanent and the alternative tax fixed, the United States will face large and growing deficits over the next decade, with red ink of between $3.5 trillion and $4 trillion over that time."b"Tonight is Mr. Bush's night to speak. But it's the job of all of us to be critical listeners."b'Nyack, N.Y. - IF there is a bandwagon in the works to eliminate the president\'s State of the Union address, I\'m jumping aboard. There has always been something uncomfortably imperious about the speech. Originally known as the Annual Message, it mimics the "speech from the throne" that opens Parliament. Thomas Jefferson abandoned the spectacle when he became president, preferring to send his constitutionally mandated message to Congress in writing. His republican example succeeded in killing the ritual for more than a hundred years.'b'It was Woodrow Wilson, Anglophile and world-class meddler, who revived the custom of delivering the address in person, prompting one senator to lament "this cheap and tawdry imitation of English royalty."'b'Cheap, tawdry and mediocre. As oratory, the speech\'s record speaks for itself. When presidents exhale the breath of history -- "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself," or, "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!" -- they invariably do it someplace other than in the State of the Union. A rhetorical omnibus making all local stops, the speech conveys a year\'s worth of departmental hackwork. In "Lend Me Your Ears," William Safire\'s compilation of great speeches, not one State of the Union address makes the table of contents.'b"Lately, things have grown worse. President Bill Clinton's final State of the Union expired after 9,000 words and more kitchen sinks than you'll find at Home Depot. The Gettysburg Address, by comparison, was 266 words. It's perhaps not too early to predict which of the two speeches the world will little note nor long remember."b'President Bush has been less fortunate. Not one but two of his addresses have produced entries for the books. The first was the over-greased "axis of evil" in 2002 -- alluring alliteration made memorable by inadvertent inanity. The second, in 2003, consisted of those 16 words about Saddam Hussein\'s uranium safari -- and yes, even the "has" and "of" turned out to be false.'b"The speech's cheap theatricality is finally beginning to grate, with some people calling it meaningless and ready for extinction. But the real problem with the State of the Union is not vapidity. The problem is fraud. Because the address has increasingly little to do with the union -- that is, the 300 million of us who represent the temporal sum of these United States. The speech instead has to do with the state of just one of us."b'The State of the Union is all about His Majesty, the president. Is he master of Congress or supplicant? How far will his poll numbers rise? How did he perform? Mr. Bush may not like French, but the address is the embodiment of "L\'\xc3\xa9tat, c\'est moi," transforming citizens into subjects, much as Jefferson feared. To hammer this point home, each year the White House peppers the gallery with "Lenny Skutniks," the trade name for the human props deployed to underscore the president\'s applause lines. The real Lenny Skutnik rescued passengers from an airline crash before serving as a visual aid to President Ronald Reagan\'s 1982 State of the Union. Skutniks have orbited the Capitol dome ever since.'b"Those of us watching at home also have a role. First, we're meant to respond to the president's new proposals as enthusiastically as a representative sample of us did when the ideas were poll-tested weeks before. Second, we must keep in mind that the address works best if we conclude, after hearing the full inventory of marvels the president has done, is doing and will do, that we like him more than we thought we did last week. Hang onto those good vibrations when the phone rings. It could be a pollster!"b'Manipulation is the essence of the game, after all, and because no one ever stops playing it, the president is expected to exploit his free shot at the goal for all it\'s worth. The speech\'s solipsism is even endorsed by the innovation of an opposition response, institutionalizing the old Broadway joke: "Enough about me, what did you think of my performance?" Only in Washington, the irony is always lost.'b'Jimmy Carter, wearing his cardigan on his sleeve, dispensed with the royal treatment for his last annual message, in 1981, sending Congress a report in writing instead. In this, President Bush would do well to emulate the least emulated of our recent executives. As the presidency grows more imperial by the hour, the State of the Union address is an hour more than we the people can bear.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Francis Wilkinson is a communications consultant and speechwriter.'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'The judge in the free-speech trial of the Turkish author Orhan Pamuk dismissed all charges last week, sparing Turkey further international scorn. But the case was thrown out on a technicality. Turkey still needs to change the repressive law under which Mr. Pamuk was arrested and drop similar cases against dozens of other lesser-known Turks.'b"The most powerful motivation for making such changes has always been Turkey's desire to join the European Union. But public support for joining is now waning, down from a high of 85 percent to 65 percent recently. In part, that reflects a lingering bitterness over 11th-hour issues that tainted the start of Turkey's membership talks."b'The European Union repeatedly stressed to Turkey the political need to reunify Cyprus, but then failed to deliver the support of Greek Cypriots, who voted against reunification after Turkish Cypriots had voted in favor. Austria tried to block the talks, France promised its citizens that they would ultimately have the chance to veto Turkey\'s membership, and prominent Germans nattered on about a "privileged partnership" for Turkey, rather than full membership.'b"Feeling slighted, a segment of the Turkish public is receptive to a vocal minority that is trying to build a nationalist wave against pro-European, reform-minded politicians. Bringing cases like the one against Mr. Pamuk is part of that strategy -- it's a sure way to provoke an international outcry at a time when some Turks are resentful of criticism."b"Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, must convince his people not to give up on the reforms that precede union membership. And Washington and Brussels need to help him make the case. The United States should remind Turkey's generals, traditionally friendly with Washington, that continued support of liberalizing reforms will help usher Turkey into the 21st century. Washington and Brussels should also renew pressure on the Greek Cypriots for reunification and reward Turkish Cypriots, economically and politically, for their efforts."b"Such a Western initiative on Cyprus could take the sting out of a coming vote in the Turkish Parliament to expand Turkey's trade treaty with Europe to the union's 10 newest members, including Cyprus. The treaty is vital, but would be seen by some Turks as a de facto recognition of a divided Cyprus."b'Mr. Erdogan did not create that bind; indeed he made all the right moves to reunify the island. But nationalists in Turkey are already playing up the issue as an example of the government selling out Turkish interests to please Europe. Mr. Erdogan needs to push back, with a little help from his friends.'b'Editorial   Correction:  March 8, 2006, Wednesday  "The Way Forward for Turkey," a Jan. 31 editorial on Turkey\'s challenges in joining the European Union, said that Greek Cypriots voted against reunifying Cyprus after Turkish Cypriots had voted in favor. Greek and Turkish Cypriots voted at the same time. The Greek Cypriots overwhelmingly rejected reunification, and the Turkish Cypriots overwhelmingly approved it.'b'Wendy Wasserstein and I had a running e-mail joke in which we took turns taking responsibility for everything bad that happened. "I\'ll bring the Iraqi constitution and we can work on it in the bar," she wrote last year before a theater date. I congratulated her for getting Michael Brown the FEMA job. We both claimed to be in charge of the Middle East peace process.'b"We were making fun of Wendy's reputation for good-heartedness. Her outrageously premature death yesterday deprived the nation of a beloved playwright, but it also stripped the city of one of its best people."b'The first time I met her, she was rushing to a speaking engagement at a small library in a faraway section of Brooklyn. I assumed that either this was the historic spot where she had learned to read or that she was related to the librarian. But no, it was simply a place that had the moxie to ask a Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright to come and do its event.'b'"Last month I was voted Miss Colitis," Wendy once wrote. "I was honored at the Waldorf-Astoria and presented with a Steuben glass bowl -- by Mary Ann Mobley Collins, a former Miss America. It\'s not that the treatment of colitis is an unworthy mission, but I have no connection to the cause except that I received a letter from the Colitis Committee asking me to show up. In other words, I became Miss Colitis because I am very nice."'b'Sometimes it was almost impossible to resist taking advantage. Wendy and I once jointly agreed to give talks at a convention of women journalists being held in Montana, under the theory that it would be an excellent opportunity to see one another. (We had reached that circle of scheduling hell in which two people who live less than a mile apart have to traverse the continent in order to have coffee.) After I arrived, I got a call from Wendy, who had missed the plane. Her only alternatives were to cancel or fly in at midnight, give her address at breakfast and then immediately return to the airport.'b'"You should do whatever you think best," I said cruelly. "The only thing I can tell you is that these women are really nice and they\'re looking forward to meeting you."'b'I picked her up at midnight. "You were right," she said, as we drove back to the airport 10 hours later. "They were awfully nice women."'b'Wendy was a charter member of the company of nice women, a river of accommodating humanity that flows through Manhattan just as it flows through Des Moines and Oneonta, N.Y., organizing library fund-raisers, running day care centers, ordering prescriptions for elderly parents, buying all the birthday presents and giving career counseling to the nephew of a very remote acquaintance who is trying to decide between making it big on Broadway and dentistry.'b'In the essay that began with the Miss Colitis story, she noted that niceness had become unfashionable, and promised to be crankier in the future. It was just a literary device. Wendy understood that being considerate in a society of self-involved strivers was not for wimps. It required a steely inner toughness that was the hallmark of many of her heroines.'b'She also knew her own nature. "Frankly, I never want to leave a room and be thought of as a horrible person," she admitted. But Wendy never explained what the rest of us were supposed to do when she left the room before us.   GAIL COLLINS'b'Washington - HOW can the United States best use its monthlong turn as president of the United Nations Security Council, which it assumes tomorrow? It could start by devoting itself to ending the violence in the Darfur region of western Sudan -- violence that President Bush has characterized as genocide.'b"There is precedent for such action. The last time the United States assumed the rotating presidency of the 15-member Security Council, it made a real contribution to peace in the region. John C. Danforth, then the ambassador to the United Nations, brought the entire Security Council to Kenya to pressure the government in Khartoum and the insurgents in the south to end their 21-year civil war. The tactic worked. Shortly afterward, Khartoum and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement signed a comprehensive peace agreement."b'Unfortunately, that agreement did nothing to end a separate conflict in Darfur, where government-backed Arab militias, in response to insurgent attacks, have driven more than 2.2 million people, primarily African farmers, from their land and bombed, burned and pillaged hundreds of villages. By some estimates, more than 200,000 people have died in the last three years.'b"John Bolton, the current American ambassador to the United Nations, has called for bold action in Darfur but has provided no real leadership for more effective moves to stop the violence. This month, Mr. Bolton should follow Mr. Danforth's example and schedule a meeting of the Council in Darfur. This would focus the world's attention on a war in which civilians are the primary targets and directly involve the Council in the push toward peace."b"Even if Mr. Bolton can't pull off the trip, he can still focus the Council on Sudan. His first priority should be strengthening the woefully inadequate peacekeeping forces there."b'Right now, there are 7,000 African Union peacekeepers in the region. But this force is simply insufficient to do the job. Only by sending United Nations troops can we possibly bring some measure of peace and stability to Darfur.'b"This won't be easy. Details about the size, mandate and cost of a new United Nations force in Darfur need to be worked out; opposition from Khartoum's allies, Russia and China, which can veto any Security Council action, may need to be overcome. But as Security Council president, Mr. Bolton should push for enough peacekeepers -- possibly backed by Western airpower -- to prevent attacks against civilians."b'Mr. Bolton, who has called for stronger enforcement of arms embargoes against Sudan, should demand the release of an unpublished United Nations study listing those countries that ship weapons to rebels and Khartoum-backed militias. Then the Council should use this information to punish sanctions scofflaws.'b'The United States has a vexing and inconsistent record on Sudan. Periods of engagement have been followed by longer, and troubling, periods of inaction. Now, with a month to lead the Security Council, the United States has a chance to show the world that we can do more than just talk about genocide.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Kenneth H. Bacon is the president of Refugees International.'b'Chestertown, Md. - THE state of our union is strong!'b'The Constitution does not technically require that these seven words be spoken by the president. But like a clogged artery, the sentence has hardened into oratorical tradition. Bill Clinton used a variant in every State of the Union but 1995. George W. Bush has stuck to the same script, though he daringly revised it to "confident and strong" in 2004 and 2005.'b"Let's face it, no president wants to admit that things aren't going well. Over the years, our leaders have evaded frank discussion of their records through a variety of maneuvers, including obfuscation through statistics, the introduction of audience members and ringing references to the founders."b'How can President Bush avoid referring to recent setbacks? When things are really bad, follow Herbert Hoover\'s Depression-era technique of referring to places so distant that no one could possibly form an opinion about them: "In South America we are proud to have had part in the settlement of the longstanding dispute between Chile and Peru in the disposal of the question of Tacna-Arica"(1929).'b'Also, the word "freedom" can\'t be used too many times. Or words like "great" and "good." Richard Nixon may have set the record for most adjectives in a single sentence when he declared, "America is a great and good land, and we are a great and good land because we are a strong, free, creative people and because America is the single greatest force for peace anywhere in the world" (1974).'b'Amen.'b'Then there is the stunning non sequitur, unequaled since Warren Harding opined: "The motor car reflects our standard of living and gauges the speed of our present life. It long ago ran down Simple Living, and never halted to inquire about the prostrate figure which fell as its victim" (1922).'b"There are so many shining cities on the hill of bad State of the Union speechwriting. In preparation for tonight's exercise in forgettable dissembling, test your knowledge of the genre by matching the quote with the reality-challenged president who uttered it:"b'Op-Ed Contributor Ted Widmer, the director of the C. V. Starr Center for the Study of the American Experience at Washington College, was a speechwriter and senior adviser to President Clinton.'