b'The next time you consider the purchase of a family car that matches satisfying heft with infinitesimal mileage per gallon, you might want to think about where some of that gas money will ultimately be going. Part of the price of every extra gallon helps, albeit indirectly, to finance mosques and religious schools all over the world that spread a fanatical variant of Islam that sees legitimacy in terrorist attacks. This financing, amounting to billions of dollars a year, comes from the government and private charities of Saudi Arabia, a country that is now taking in roughly $80 billion a year from oil exports.'b"Saudi Arabia is the source of only 15 percent of America's imported oil. But since oil is an interchangeable commodity in world markets, every barrel America imports, even if it comes from Venezuela, Nigeria or Mexico, helps push up the prices received by Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter. America now imports well over half of the oil it consumes, and more than half of United States consumption is in the form of motor vehicle fuels. Thanks to America's gas guzzlers, China's booming factories and other thirsty consuming nations, this has been an extremely profitable year for oil exporting countries. Overall global demand is at record levels, and OPEC's production recently reached its highest since 1979. Even with the latest slippage in oil prices, Saudi Arabia's low production costs allow it to reap a hefty markup on every barrel sold."b'The Saudi government, itself under assault from Al Qaeda, is not in the business of directly financing terrorism, and since 9/11 it has responded to American pressure to control the flow of charitable funds to active terrorist groups. But what it still pays for, and what the religious charities its citizens are obliged to contribute to pay for, is a worldwide network of mosques, schools and Islamic centers that proselytize the belligerent and intolerant Wahhabi variant of Islam that is dominant in Saudi Arabia. As a result of this oil-financed largess, the teachings of more tolerant and humane Muslim leaders are losing ground in countries like Indonesia and Pakistan. Wahhabi mosques that glorify armed jihad have also made alarming gains among the Muslim populations of Europe and the United States.'b"For years, Saudi Arabian oil money bankrolled the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and provided financial support to Pakistan's government. It was Saudi aid that allowed Pakistan to defy international sanctions imposed over its nuclear bomb testing. Without Saudi money there is some question whether chronically impoverished Pakistan could have ever afforded to develop nuclear weapons and the crucial bomb-related technologies that its scientists passed on to Iran, Libya, North Korea and perhaps other countries as well."b'There is no sinister Saudi conspiracy at work here. This is just what anyone should expect to happen when mind-boggling sums of oil money flow into an absolute monarchy that bases its legitimacy on puritanical militant Islam and offers no pretense of political accountability or transparent accounting. The more copiously that oil money flows, the less pressure a divided Saudi royal family feels to undertake the kind of difficult political and economic reforms that might conceivably break the nexus between oil and terror.'b'The Saudi syndrome is not the only reason Americans need to get much more serious about energy conservation. But it is a powerfully compelling one.'b"I have this week's front pages arrayed on the desk around me. There's a picture of dead children lined up on a floor while a mother wails. There's a picture of a man on the beach holding his dead son's hand to his forehead. There are others, each as wrenching as the last."b'Human beings have always told stories to explain deluges such as this. Most cultures have deep at their core a flood myth in which the great bulk of humanity is destroyed and a few are left to repopulate and repurify the human race. In most of these stories, God is meting out retribution, punishing those who have strayed from his path. The flood starts a new history, which will be on a higher plane than the old.'b'Nowadays we find these kinds of explanations repugnant. It is repugnant to imply that the people who suffer from natural disasters somehow deserve their fate. And yet for all the callousness of those tales, they did at least put human beings at the center of history.'b'In those old flood myths, things happened because human beings behaved in certain ways; their morality was tied to their destiny. Stories of a wrathful God implied that at least there was an active God, who had some plan for the human race. At the end of the tribulations there would be salvation.'b"If you listen to the discussion of the tsunami this past week, you receive the clear impression that the meaning of this event is that there is no meaning. Humans are not the universe's main concern. We're just gnats on the crust of the earth. The earth shrugs and 140,000 gnats die, victims of forces far larger and more permanent than themselves."b"Most of the stories that were told and repeated this week were melodramas. One person freakishly survives while another perishes, and there is really no cause for one's good fortune or the other's bad. A baby survives by sitting on a mattress. Others are washed out to sea and then wash back bloated and dead. There is no human agency in these stories, just nature's awful lottery."b'The nature we saw this week is different from the nature we tell ourselves about in the natural history museum, at the organic grocery store and on a weekend outing to the national park. This week nature seems amoral and viciously cruel. This week we\'re reminded that the word "wilderness" derives from the word for willful and uncontrollable.'b'This catastrophic, genocidal nature is a long way from the benign and rhythmic circle of life in "The Lion King." It\'s a long way from the naturalist theology of Thoreau\'s "Walden" or the writings of John Muir.'b'The naturalists hold up nature as the spiritual tonic to our vulgar modern world. They urge us to break down the barriers that alienate us from nature. Live simply and imbibe nature\'s wisdom. "Probably if our lives were more conformed to nature, we should not need to defend ourselves against her heats and colds, but find her our constant nurse and friend, as do plants and quadrupeds," Thoreau wrote.'b"Nature doesn't seem much like a nurse or friend this week, and when Thoreau goes on to celebrate the savage wildness of nature, he sounds, this week, like a boy who has seen a war movie and thinks he has experienced the glory of combat."b'In short, this week images of something dark and unmerciful were thrust onto a culture that is by temperament upbeat and romantic.'b'In the newspaper essays and television commentaries reflecting upon it all, there would often be some awkward passage as the author tried to conclude with some easy uplift -- a little bromide about how wonderfully we all rallied together, and how we are all connected by our common humanity in times of crisis.'b"The world's generosity has indeed been amazing, but sometimes we use our compassion as a self-enveloping fog to obscure our view of the abyss. Somehow it's wrong to turn this event into a good-news story so we can all feel warm this holiday season. It's wrong to turn it into a story about us, who gave, rather than about them, whose lives were ruined. It's certainly wrong to turn this into yet another petty political spat, as many tried, disgustingly, to do."b'This is a moment to feel deeply bad, for the dead and for those of us who have no explanation.'b'Nicholas D. Kristof is on vacation.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b'The Bush administration is proceeding briskly with its demolition job on the environmental regulations it inherited from previous administrations, especially the rules protecting the national forests against commercial exploitation.'b'Over the last four years, the Forest Service has weakened agreements aimed at preserving old-growth trees and wildlife in the Pacific Northwest and in the Sierra Nevada. It persuaded Congress to adopt its misnamed "Healthy Forests" initiative that helps timber companies as much as it helps communities at risk from forest fire. It threatens to overturn President Bill Clinton\'s popular roadless rule protecting the most remote areas of the forests, and it has already removed those protections from the Tongass National Forest in Alaska. Then last week, just before Christmas -- the administration\'s preferred time for unveiling bad news -- it announced a radical overhaul of the rules governing the management of the nation\'s 155 national forests.'b'The ostensible purpose of the change is to streamline a cumbersome management process and give individual forest managers more flexibility to respond to threats like wildfires and the increasing use of the forests by off-road vehicles. But the new rules would also eliminate vital environmental reviews, as mandated by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, jettison wildlife protections that date to President Ronald Reagan, restrict public input, and replace detailed regulations, like those limiting clearcuts and protecting streams, with vague "results-based" goals. These are unacceptably high costs to pay for regulatory efficiency.'b"More broadly, the whole idea of giving local managers more flexibility defies history, however reasonable it appears on the surface. The main reason Congress enacted the National Forest Management Act in 1976 was that the public had lost confidence in the Forest Service, not only local foresters but also their bosses in Washington, who seemed mainly interested in harvesting timber no matter what the cost to the forest's ecological health."b'There are, of course, forest mangers who act responsibly. And the administration promises that forest plans will be regularly audited under an "environmental management system" it has borrowed from private industry. But it is not clear who will be conducting these audits (indeed, it\'s entirely possible the timber industry could end up monitoring itself). Nor, given the vagueness of the new guidelines, are there any longer clear standards against which foresters and their plans can be measured.'b'This is a recipe for trouble. Forest supervisors have always been subject to fierce pressures from timber companies and the communities that depend upon them for jobs. Unless the law unambiguously requires them to protect nature -- giving them legal cover to resist industry pressures -- we could see a return to the days when what counted on a r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9 was not whether a manager harmonized the competing needs of nature and commerce but whether he met his annual "cut."'b"Representative Tom Udall and others in Congress may try to overturn these rules legislatively. Their chances in this Congress are slim to none. It's also true that in a purely statistical sense, the stakes for both sides are not as high as they were 15 years ago, when about 30 percent of domestic timber production came from the national forests. Today that figure is about 5 percent, partly because of shifting industry priorities and partly because of court rulings protecting endangered species like the spotted owl and their forest habitat. Still, there's plenty of room for mischief, especially if President Bush succeeds in rescinding the roadless rule. People like Mr. Udall are right to keep fighting."b"Los Angeles - NEW Year's weekend traditionally is a time for us to reflect, and to make resolutions based on our reflections. In this fresh year, with the United States seemingly at the height of its power and at the start of a new presidential term, Americans are increasingly concerned and divided about where we are going. How long can America remain ascendant? Where will we stand 10 years from now, or even next year?"b"Such questions seem especially appropriate this year. History warns us that when once-powerful societies collapse, they tend to do so quickly and unexpectedly. That shouldn't come as much of a surprise: peak power usually means peak population, peak needs, and hence peak vulnerability. What can be learned from history that could help us avoid joining the ranks of those who declined swiftly? We must expect the answers to be complex, because historical reality is complex: while some societies did indeed collapse spectacularly, others have managed to thrive for thousands of years without major reversal."b"When it comes to historical collapses, five groups of interacting factors have been especially important: the damage that people have inflicted on their environment; climate change; enemies; changes in friendly trading partners; and the society's political, economic and social responses to these shifts. That's not to say that all five causes play a role in every case. Instead, think of this as a useful checklist of factors that should be examined, but whose relative importance varies from case to case."b"For instance, in the collapse of the Polynesian society on Easter Island three centuries ago, environmental problems were dominant, and climate change, enemies and trade were insignificant; however, the latter three factors played big roles in the disappearance of the medieval Norse colonies on Greenland. Let's consider two examples of declines stemming from different mixes of causes: the falls of classic Maya civilization and of Polynesian settlements on the Pitcairn Islands."b"Maya Native Americans of the Yucatan Peninsula and adjacent parts of Central America developed the New World's most advanced civilization before Columbus. They were innovators in writing, astronomy, architecture and art. From local origins around 2,500 years ago, Maya societies rose especially after the year A.D. 250, reaching peaks of population and sophistication in the late 8th century."b'Thereafter, societies in the most densely populated areas of the southern Yucatan underwent a steep political and cultural collapse: between 760 and 910, kings were overthrown, large areas were abandoned, and at least 90 percent of the population disappeared, leaving cities to become overgrown by jungle. The last known date recorded on a Maya monument by their so-called Long Count calendar corresponds to the year 909. What happened?'b'A major factor was environmental degradation by people: deforestation, soil erosion and water management problems, all of which resulted in less food. Those problems were exacerbated by droughts, which may have been partly caused by humans themselves through deforestation. Chronic warfare made matters worse, as more and more people fought over less and less land and resources.'b"Why weren't these problems obvious to the Maya kings, who could surely see their forests vanishing and their hills becoming eroded? Part of the reason was that the kings were able to insulate themselves from problems afflicting the rest of society. By extracting wealth from commoners, they could remain well fed while everyone else was slowly starving."b"What's more, the kings were preoccupied with their own power struggles. They had to concentrate on fighting one another and keeping up their images through ostentatious displays of wealth. By insulating themselves in the short run from the problems of society, the elite merely bought themselves the privilege of being among the last to starve."b"Whereas Maya societies were undone by problems of their own making, Polynesian societies on Pitcairn and Henderson Islands in the tropical Pacific Ocean were undone largely by other people's mistakes. Pitcairn, the uninhabited island settled in 1790 by the H.M.S. Bounty mutineers, had actually been populated by Polynesians 800 years earlier. That society, which left behind temple platforms, stone and shell tools and huge garbage piles of fish and bird and turtle bones as evidence of its existence, survived for several centuries and then vanished. Why?"b"In many respects, Pitcairn and Henderson are tropical paradises, rich in some food sources and essential raw materials. Pitcairn is home to Southeast Polynesia's largest quarry of stone suited for making adzes, while Henderson has the region's largest breeding seabird colony and its only nesting beach for sea turtles. Yet the islanders depended on imports from Mangareva Island, hundreds of miles away, for canoes, crops, livestock and oyster shells for making tools."b'Unfortunately for the inhabitants of Pitcairn and Henderson, their Mangarevan trading partner collapsed for reasons similar to those underlying the Maya decline: deforestation, erosion and warfare. Deprived of essential imports in a Polynesian equivalent of the 1973 oil crisis, the Pitcairn and Henderson societies declined until everybody had died or fled.'b'The Maya and the Henderson and Pitcairn Islanders are not alone, of course. Over the centuries, many other societies have declined, collapsed or died out. Famous victims include the Anasazi in the American Southwest, who abandoned their cities in the 12th century because of environmental problems and climate change, and the Greenland Norse, who disappeared in the 15th century because of all five interacting factors on the checklist. There were also the ancient Fertile Crescent societies, the Khmer at Angkor Wat, the Moche society of Peru -- the list goes on.'b'But before we let ourselves get depressed, we should also remember that there is another long list of cultures that have managed to prosper for lengthy periods of time. Societies in Japan, Tonga, Tikopia, the New Guinea Highlands and Central and Northwest Europe, for example, have all found ways to sustain themselves. What separates the lost cultures from those that survived? Why did the Maya fail and the shogun succeed?'b"Half of the answer involves environmental differences: geography deals worse cards to some societies than to others. Many of the societies that collapsed had the misfortune to occupy dry, cold or otherwise fragile environments, while many of the long-term survivors enjoyed more robust and fertile surroundings. But it's not the case that a congenial environment guarantees success: some societies (like the Maya) managed to ruin lush environments, while other societies -- like the Incas, the Inuit, Icelanders and desert Australian Aborigines -- have managed to carry on in some of the earth's most daunting environments."b"The other half of the answer involves differences in a society's responses to problems. Ninth-century New Guinea Highland villagers, 16th-century German landowners, and the Tokugawa shoguns of 17th-century Japan all recognized the deforestation spreading around them and solved the problem, either by developing scientific reforestation (Japan and Germany) or by transplanting tree seedlings (New Guinea). Conversely, the Maya, Mangarevans and Easter Islanders failed to address their forestry problems and so collapsed."b"Consider Japan. In the 1600's, the country faced its own crisis of deforestation, paradoxically brought on by the peace and prosperity following the Tokugawa shoguns' military triumph that ended 150 years of civil war. The subsequent explosion of Japan's population and economy set off rampant logging for construction of palaces and cities, and for fuel and fertilizer."b"The shoguns responded with both negative and positive measures. They reduced wood consumption by turning to light-timbered construction, to fuel-efficient stoves and heaters, and to coal as a source of energy. At the same time, they increased wood production by developing and carefully managing plantation forests. Both the shoguns and the Japanese peasants took a long-term view: the former expected to pass on their power to their children, and the latter expected to pass on their land. In addition, Japan's isolation at the time made it obvious that the country would have to depend on its own resources and couldn't meet its needs by pillaging other countries. Today, despite having the highest human population density of any large developed country, Japan is more than 70 percent forested."b"There is a similar story from Iceland. When the island was first settled by the Norse around 870, its light volcanic soils presented colonists with unfamiliar challenges. They proceeded to cut down trees and stock sheep as if they were still in Norway, with its robust soils. Significant erosion ensued, carrying half of Iceland's topsoil into the ocean within a century or two. Icelanders became the poorest people in Europe. But they gradually learned from their mistakes, over time instituting stocking limits on sheep and other strict controls, and establishing an entire government department charged with landscape management. Today, Iceland boasts the sixth-highest per-capita income in the world."b"What lessons can we draw from history? The most straightforward: take environmental problems seriously. They destroyed societies in the past, and they are even more likely to do so now. If 6,000 Polynesians with stone tools were able to destroy Mangareva Island, consider what six billion people with metal tools and bulldozers are doing today. Moreover, while the Maya collapse affected just a few neighboring societies in Central America, globalization now means that any society's problems have the potential to affect anyone else. Just think how crises in Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq have shaped the United States today."b'Other lessons involve failures of group decision-making. There are many reasons why past societies made bad decisions, and thereby failed to solve or even to perceive the problems that would eventually destroy them. One reason involves conflicts of interest, whereby one group within a society (for instance, the pig farmers who caused the worst erosion in medieval Greenland and Iceland) can profit by engaging in practices that damage the rest of society. Another is the pursuit of short-term gains at the expense of long-term survival, as when fishermen overfish the stocks on which their livelihoods ultimately depend.'b"History also teaches us two deeper lessons about what separates successful societies from those heading toward failure. A society contains a built-in blueprint for failure if the elite insulates itself from the consequences of its actions. That's why Maya kings, Norse Greenlanders and Easter Island chiefs made choices that eventually undermined their societies. They themselves did not begin to feel deprived until they had irreversibly destroyed their landscape."b"Could this happen in the United States? It's a thought that often occurs to me here in Los Angeles, when I drive by gated communities, guarded by private security patrols, and filled with people who drink bottled water, depend on private pensions, and send their children to private schools. By doing these things, they lose the motivation to support the police force, the municipal water supply, Social Security and public schools. If conditions deteriorate too much for poorer people, gates will not keep the rioters out. Rioters eventually burned the palaces of Maya kings and tore down the statues of Easter Island chiefs; they have also already threatened wealthy districts in Los Angeles twice in recent decades."b"In contrast, the elite in 17th-century Japan, as in modern Scandinavia and the Netherlands, could not ignore or insulate themselves from broad societal problems. For instance, the Dutch upper class for hundreds of years has been unable to insulate itself from the Netherlands' water management problems for a simple reason: the rich live in the same drained lands below sea level as the poor. If the dikes and pumps keeping out the sea fail, the well-off Dutch know that they will drown along with everybody else, which is precisely what happened during the floods of 1953."b"The other deep lesson involves a willingness to re-examine long-held core values, when conditions change and those values no longer make sense. The medieval Greenland Norse lacked such a willingness: they continued to view themselves as transplanted Norwegian pastoralists, and to despise the Inuit as pagan hunters, even after Norway stopped sending trading ships and the climate had grown too cold for a pastoral existence. They died off as a result, leaving Greenland to the Inuit. On the other hand, the British in the 1950's faced up to the need for a painful reappraisal of their former status as rulers of a world empire set apart from Europe. They are now finding a different avenue to wealth and power, as part of a united Europe."b"In this New Year, we Americans have our own painful reappraisals to face. Historically, we viewed the United States as a land of unlimited plenty, and so we practiced unrestrained consumerism, but that's no longer viable in a world of finite resources. We can't continue to deplete our own resources as well as those of much of the rest of the world."b'Historically, oceans protected us from external threats; we stepped back from our isolationism only temporarily during the crises of two world wars. Now, technology and global interconnectedness have robbed us of our protection. In recent years, we have responded to foreign threats largely by seeking short-term military solutions at the last minute.'b"But how long can we keep this up? Though we are the richest nation on earth, there's simply no way we can afford (or muster the troops) to intervene in the dozens of countries where emerging threats lurk -- particularly when each intervention these days can cost more than $100 billion and require more than 100,000 troops."b"A genuine reappraisal would require us to recognize that it will be far less expensive and far more effective to address the underlying problems of public health, population and environment that ultimately cause threats to us to emerge in poor countries. In the past, we have regarded foreign aid as either charity or as buying support; now, it's an act of self-interest to preserve our own economy and protect American lives."b"Do we have cause for hope? Many of my friends are pessimistic when they contemplate the world's growing population and human demands colliding with shrinking resources. But I draw hope from the knowledge that humanity's biggest problems today are ones entirely of our own making. Asteroids hurtling at us beyond our control don't figure high on our list of imminent dangers. To save ourselves, we don't need new technology: we just need the political will to face up to our problems of population and the environment."b'I also draw hope from a unique advantage that we enjoy. Unlike any previous society in history, our global society today is the first with the opportunity to learn from the mistakes of societies remote from us in space and in time. When the Maya and Mangarevans were cutting down their trees, there were no historians or archaeologists, no newspapers or television, to warn them of the consequences of their actions. We, on the other hand, have a detailed chronicle of human successes and failures at our disposal. Will we choose to use it?'b'Op-Ed Contributor Jared Diamond, who won the 1998 Pulitzer Prize in general nonfiction for "Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies," is the author of the forthcoming "Collapse: How Societies Choose or Fail to Succeed."'b'No matter how you look at it, the new year is not going to be as blank a slate as you hope. It never is. The starting over is always figurative, a moral effort rather than an actual fresh start. In fact, a new year like this one feels very much like the revenge of the old year. Quarterly taxes -- for 2004 -- will come due pretty soon, and then President Bush will be inaugurated. The enormous momentum of life as we know it is not poised to turn on a dime just so we can start out on Jan. 1 refreshed with possibilities. You can feel the gravity of the past pulling at your back the way real gravity pulls at your shoes.'b'But deep within us is the habit of looking forward, a habit as powerful as the belief that our lives are somehow external to us and that we can pick them up and rearrange them at will. We live profoundly in time, painfully aware of the way the new years stack up one by one.'b'We also live immersed in intention, trying to make the most of what time has to offer. There are days when the likelihood of real renewal seems almost impossible, when our lives seem utterly conditioned by the past. And then there are those days when renewal seems certain, merely a matter of making the right choices, consciously. It would be a coincidence if one of those days of rebirth happened to fall on the first of the year.'b"It's easy to dismiss the feeling of renewed intentions aroused by the new year, easy to think of resolutions as party favors of a sort, nothing more than wistful daydreams of being thinner, healthier, richer or happier than we are, forgotten as soon as made. But just ask anyone who's ever made a real change for the better. There's nothing wistful about it. It isn't a daydream. People who have fulfilled a latent possibility in themselves can sense the possibilities lying hidden in so many human lives. It doesn't take a revelation or a flash of light from heaven. It takes getting out of the habit of standing apart from your life, watching yourself as if you were two people instead of just one."b"Most animals do not make resolutions, as far as we know. The dog isn't planning to do less dinner-table begging this year, nor is the cat going to try to take fewer catnaps. Things are as they are. But a human without hope, a human who has stopped trying to reform himself or excel herself, has a very hard time being fully human."b"By custom, we think of New Year's Day as a personal time, a moment for thinking about the course our lives are taking. It's a private matter, we somehow feel, whether you choose to try to make any changes for the better. After all, you can't force hope on a person. But looking at the world around us, we see the need for all the hopefulness and resolution that each of us can muster We need all the commitment to change we can stir up for the year ahead."b'This is the week that the election in the 35th State Senate District may be released from court custody. The lawyers are almost done with it; soon it will be time to hand it back it to the people, so they will know what decision they made back on Nov. 2.'b"It's hard to say what the result will look like after two months of poking, shuffling and pawing in the basement of the Board of Elections and in various courtrooms around the region, the latest being the appellate division of State Supreme Court, which is hearing arguments tomorrow over which of roughly 550 contested ballots should be included in the final count."b"The lawyers working for the Republican incumbent, Nicholas A. Spano, are hoping that a slender thing of beauty will emerge -- the electoral equivalent of an extreme makeover, with all unsightly paper ballots suctioned off and the massaged totals proudly affirming their candidate's re-election."b'Such a result would be alarmingly slim, perhaps, but it would be enough to send Mr. Spano back to Albany. He could then continue the mission of reform that he discovered so late in his career, in the waning days of the campaign, when it was looking as if Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the county legislator, might actually win.'b'Another result could emerge, the one the Democrats want: a broad, lumpy agglomeration of the machine and paper ballots cast by all the registered voters who went to the polls that day and did their best to fulfill their civic obligation. That is what would happen if those in authority observed the simple democratic premise of giving one person one vote and then counting it, so that the candidate with the most votes wins.'b'But nothing is ever simple in Yonkers, where Republicans have tried so hard to keep the will of the people from upsetting the delicate balance of things. They thought they had sewn it up on election night, but the initial machine tally proved to be laughably off the mark, meaning that the outcome would be determined by the fat, uncounted pile of absentee and affidavit ballots.'b'This was bad news for the Republicans, because these paper ballots came mainly from Democratic precincts. So the Republicans lifted another tactic from their playbook: slow the game down, control the ball.'b"Playing private eye, they sent mailings to the addresses of hundreds of voters who filed paper ballots, hoping that returned mail -- from public housing, where minority voters live -- would demonstrate fraud. They challenged ballot after ballot cast by students and elderly and minority voters, even complaining, as one of the Democrats' lawyers, Henry Berger, pointed out, about the signatures of elderly voters whose handwriting had gotten shaky in the decades since they first registered."b'The sticklers won their argument with a judge who agreed to toss out the votes of people who filed absentee ballots so that they could work at polling places on Election Day. This has been a longstanding practice in Westchester and elsewhere, an uncontroversial one but flawed, because it requires poll workers to sign forms stating falsely that they will be out of the county on Election Day. But this is a problem of election forms, not of fraud.'b'Credible charges of fraud, in fact, are about the only complications that have been conspicuously absent from this election -- unless, of course, you count the fraudulent sincerity of the Spano camp, whose professed allegiance to the principles of democracy and fair play is undermined every minute that this endless election drags on.'b"If you want to know whether any New York State legislator is a reformer, watch to see how he or she votes on reforming the Legislature's rules. The rules votes, normally routine, are usually taken in the first or second week in January. They establish the ways the Assembly and the Senate do business. Anybody with the slightest understanding of why New York's Legislature ranks among the worst in the country knows that these kinds of details really count."b'In the Republican-controlled Senate and the Democratic-controlled Assembly, those in power want to continue their stranglehold on the legislative process. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, and the Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, have talked publicly about change. Yet real reformers are meeting resistance from the top.'b'Here are important rules changes that should be passed by both houses:'b"1. No ghost voting. Many New York legislators whine that they will miss committee hearings and quality time with constituents if they actually have to vote in person. But the floor is where the real action should be. So it's time to unplug the machines that allow Assembly members to swipe a card in the morning so a computer will vote magically on their behalf while they are elsewhere; time, too, to end a Senate system that works manually (with a wave of the hand at the Senate clerk) in much the same way."b'2. A staff for every legislator. Both houses should allot a baseline amount of money to every legislator regardless of party or time of service. As it is now, some members cannot afford a researcher and have to appeal to leaders for everything from computers to paper clips.'b'3. Limits on emergency bills. As it is now, about one-fourth of the bills passed by New York\'s Legislature are rushed to the floor under the governor\'s emergency powers. This means legislators spend a lot of time voting on bills they have no chance even to read. These "messages of necessity," as they are called, should be allowed only with a vote of two-thirds of the members of each chamber.'b'Both houses need to make it easier to have conference committees to iron out differences between bills. It should also be easier for legislators of both parties to put their names on bills they want to sponsor and to get those bills to the floor for votes.'b"This is the one time the Legislature can easily loosen its undemocratic guidelines, which now give all power to Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver, and make New York's Legislature a working body where every voter in every district has some voice through the elected representatives."b"LONDON - WE have now entered what is being celebrated as the Einstein Year, marking the centenary of the physicist's annus mirabilis in 1905, when he published three landmark papers -- those that proved the existence of the atom, showed the validity of quantum physics and, of course, introduced the world to his theory of special relativity. Not bad for a beginner."b'"It\'s not that I\'m so smart," Einstein once said, "It\'s just that I stay with problems longer." Whatever the reason for his greatness, there is no doubt that this determination allowed him to invent courageous new physics and explore realms that nobody else had dared to investigate.'b"What he was not, however, was a perfect genius. In fact, when it came to the biggest scientific issue of all -- the origin of the universe -- he was utterly wrong. And while we should certainly laud his achievements over the next 12 months, we may learn a more valuable lesson by investigating Einstein's greatest failure."b'The story starts in the late 19th century, when the scientific establishment believed in an eternal and unchanging universe. This was a neat theory of cosmology, because a universe that had always existed did not raise any awkward questions, such as "When was the universe created?" and "What (or Who) created it?"'b"Einstein grew up in this era, and was similarly convinced that the universe had existed for an eternity. However, when he developed general relativity (his theory of gravity) in 1915, he became aware of a tricky problem. Gravity is an attractive force -- it attracts coins to the ground and it attracts comets toward the sun. So why hadn't gravity caused the matter in the universe to collapse inward on itself?"b'Gravity seemed to be incompatible with an eternal, unchanging universe, and Einstein certainly had no sympathy for the alternative view of a collapsing universe, stating that: "To admit such a possibility seems senseless."'b'Isaac Newton had run into the same problem with his own theory of gravity some 250 years earlier. He too believed in an eternal universe, yet he knew that gravity would have to cause its collapse after a finite time. His solution was to propose that God was responsible for keeping apart all the celestial objects, adjusting their positions from time to time as part of his cosmic curatorial responsibilities.'b'Einstein was reluctant to invoke God, so his solution was to fiddle with his theory of general relativity, adding an antigravity force alongside familiar gravity. This repulsive force would counteract gravity over cosmic distances, thereby maintaining the overall stability of the universe. There was no evidence for this antigravity force, but Einstein assumed that it had to exist in order to provide a platform for eternity.'b"Although everything now seemed to make sense, there were some dissenters. A small band of renegade cosmologists suggested in the 1920's that the universe was not eternal but had been created at a finite moment in the past. They claimed it had exploded and expanded from a small, hot, dense state into what we see today. In particular, they argued that it had once been compacted into a primeval super atom, which had then ruptured and exploded. This model, which has since developed into the Big Bang theory, did not require any stabilizing antigravity because it proposed a dynamic, evolving universe."b'The Big Bang model was initially ridiculed by the scientific establishment. For example, one of its pioneers, Georges Lema\xc3\xaetre, was both a cosmologist and an ordained priest, so critics cited his theology as his motivation for advancing such a crackpot theory of creation. They suspected that the model was Lema\xc3\xaetre\'s way of sneaking a Creator into science. While Einstein was not biased against Lema\xc3\xaetre\'s religious background, he did call the priest\'s physics "abominable." It was enough to banish the Big Bang model to the hinterlands of cosmology.'b'However, in 1929 Einstein was forced to eat humble pie. Edwin Hubble, working at Mount Wilson Observatory in Southern California, showed that all the distant galaxies in the universe were racing away from one another as though they were debris from a cosmic explosion. The Big Bang model seemed to be correct. And, while it would take several decades before the theory was accepted by the scientific establishment, Einstein, to his credit, did not fight on. "This is the most beautiful and satisfactory explanation of creation to which I have ever listened," he said, and even called his repulsive force the biggest blunder of his career.'b'In 1931, Einstein paid a visit to Hubble at Mount Wilson, where he renounced his own static cosmology and endorsed the expanding universe model. His support was enough for The New York Times to embrace the mavericks, running an article with the headline "Lema\xc3\xaetre Suggests One, Single, Great Atom, Embracing All Energy, Started The Universe." Hubble\'s hometown newspaper in Missouri, The Springfield Daily News, preferred to focus on its local hero: "Youth Who Left Ozark Mountains to Study Stars Causes Einstein to Change His Mind."'b'It might seem that Einstein emerges from this story as a flawed genius, one who was not perfect. In fact, there is a twist to the tale, one that implies he was perhaps better than perfect.'b'If gravity pulls everything together, then the expansion of the Big Bang should be slowing, because all the receding galaxies would be attracted to one another. In 1998, however, when astronomers tried to measure this deceleration, they were astonished to find that the universe is in fact accelerating. The galaxies are apparently moving apart faster and faster as time passes.'b'What is the best explanation scientists can come up with? The existence of an antigravity force. Theorists call this repulsive effect "dark energy," but it is exactly the sort of force that Einstein posited to maintain the stability of the universe. Antigravity is now back in fashion some seven decades after he abandoned it. It seems that even when Einstein thought he was wrong, he turned out to be right.'b"And, as we celebrate the Einstein Year, let's also bear in mind the fact that he was prepared to admit that he was wrong. Perhaps humility, more than anything, is the mark of true genius."b'Op-Ed Contributor Simon Singh is the author of "Fermat\'s Enigma" and the forthcoming "Big Bang: The Origins of the Universe."'b'The nation mourns the men and women in uniform who are killed or wounded in Iraq, one by one. But the public needs to be aware, and be worried, about the larger picture too. Our military and our military readiness have been strained and risk real, permanent damage.'b"Twenty-five years ago, America's Army was a lot larger and had a lot less to do. Now, a substantially smaller force is struggling to cope with the demands placed on it by Iraq, where boots on the ground are in chronically short supply. For much of the past two years, the bulk of America's frontline ground forces have been tied down in an open-ended counterinsurgency war they were not expected, or given the resources, to fight. These soldiers and marines, active-duty and Reserve, have shown courage and determination, despite shortages of armor and other equipment, involuntarily extended enlistments and accelerated rotations back into combat."b"Their fortitude has allowed the Pentagon to sustain a situation that everyone recognizes cannot go on indefinitely, even though no end to the Iraqi conflict is yet in sight. The extended unplanned deployment of American forces is taking a heavy cumulative toll, especially on the Army and Army National Guard. It is undermining readiness and morale, and limiting America's ability to send substantial ground forces elsewhere to back up its diplomacy or respond to emerging threats."b"The Pentagon is beginning to resemble a desperate farmer who feeds his starving family the seed corn meant for sowing next year's crop. To keep enough boots on the ground now, it is sacrificing the ability to retain the leaders of tomorrow. As overdeployment has become chronic, promising young officers are opting not to re-enlist. When new crops of young people graduate from school, they will be less willing to combine their civilian careers with service in the Army National Guard; recruitment is already down almost 30 percent. The Regular Army is hurting too. Despite enlistment bonuses, it has had to speed up its reporting schedules, sending new recruits straight into basic training."b'This growing crisis is not due to a lack of preparedness on the part of military brass, but to the ideology on which preparedness was based. Before Iraq, Pentagon dogma -- supported by most Republican politicians and many conservative Democrats -- held that United States troops were war fighters. Peacekeeping and nation-building were jobs for Old Europe. Well, that was then.'b"Now, more than half of the Regular Army's fighting forces have either served in Iraq, are currently there or can expect to be on their way soon, along with a substantial fraction of the Marine Corps and historically high proportions of the Army National Guard and Reserves. Rotations are being accelerated, with units that have already served in Iraq returning for second tours. These faster rotations are degrading readiness, wearing down equipment and leaving less time for normal training exercises. Reservists, including police, firefighters and other homeland defenders, are spending lengthy tours overseas. Four out of 10 Americans now serving in Iraq come from Reserve or National Guard units."b"None of this should lead Americans to worry that the United States -- with the world's premier Air Force, Navy and nuclear strike force fully intact -- is defenseless. If a new threat suddenly arose -- if, for example, Al Qaeda threatened Saudi oil fields, radical Islamist officers got control of Pakistani nuclear weapons or China attacked Taiwan -- Washington could respond forcefully and decisively. But that does not mean that broader American security interests are not paying a price. Any additional foreign engagement that dragged on beyond a few months and required large numbers of ground troops would require a wider call-up of reserves and perhaps a return to the draft."b"Many potential enemies overseas doubt that the public would have the appetite for that kind of sacrifice. As a result, America's diplomatic clout is being subtly undermined. Iranian mullahs weighing whether to give up their nuclear programs may conclude that Washington is in no position to face them down. North Korea's dictator, Kim Jong Il, may also feel freer to proceed with his nuclear plans and move troops closer to the South Korean border. Chinese leaders may see this as an opportune time to escalate their bullying of Taiwan."b"Listing all the dangers is much easier than coming up with solutions. But there are some obvious short-term answers. Barring any unexpected breakthroughs in Iraq, Washington needs to increase its recruitment quotas sharply for active-duty service in the Army and Marine Corps. The current Army recruitment ceiling of just above 500,000 ought to go up to nearly 600,000, still substantially below the levels of the late 1980's. The Marines' ceiling should go up from the current 178,000 to around 200,000. Attracting those recruits will require offering financial and other inducements on top of the added payroll costs."b"Most of the additional money required for this could come from elsewhere in the military budget. The Pentagon is taking a big step in the right direction by proposing sharp cuts in the unneeded F-22 stealth fighter program. As the military raises recruitment targets for the Army and Marines, it can reduce recruitment for the Air Force and Navy, which have more active-duty members than they now need. America's ground forces have been asked to do too much, with too little, for too long."b'IN its tough, often remorseless way, New York is a crucible for every manner of talent. Some of the talented young are swiftly defeated, and retreat into more ordinary lives. Others are shooting stars, here and gone. Those made of sterner stuff last longer, and it helps if they have lived on our streets. Two such people were Susan Sontag and Jerry Orbach, who died within days of each other. Each was born in New York, went away as a child, and returned to stay. They lived and died as members of the same tribe, the New York tribe.'b'On the surface, of course, they seemed to be inhabitants of entirely different worlds. Sontag was the severe Manhattan-born intellectual. Orbach was out of the Bronx, a song-and-dance man at the beginning who would become one of the durable stars of dramatic television. But in their separate ways, both were nourished by the endless possibilities offered by their native city.'b'It was possible to cherish each of them in the same lifetime. On different evenings as a young man, sitting in the Theater de Lys on Christopher Street, I saw Orbach as the Street Singer in "The Threepenny Opera" and as Mack the Knife. A few years later, he was the epitome of charm and style in "The Fantasticks." But as he matured, he got even better. In 1975, I went to Bob Fosse\'s "Chicago" and watched Orbach sing "Razzle Dazzle," all cynicism and style, and thought that no other city on the planet could have created such pleasure.'b'In the early 1960\'s, while Orbach was becoming noticed, I first read Susan Sontag\'s "Notes on Camp." Suddenly, I knew that it was all right to be thrilled by Beckett and Ionesco and Joyce, while also loving Dean Martin. I was starting then to see the city in the same way that Sontag saw our culture. I could love the brownstones of Gramercy Park and embrace Times Square, too. I could, on the same day, travel from the Metropolitan Museum to Hubert\'s Flea Circus on 42nd Street.'b'Sontag, as the obituaries and remembrances pointed out last week, became a celebrity. Unlike, say, Paris Hilton, she was not someone who was famous for being famous. She was not even a celebrity because of her striking looks and presence, although New Yorkers did nod discreet hellos when they passed her on the street. The fame came from the work. And in the work, she was open to exploring the world that existed beyond the academy. She also had time for other forms of New York life. She went to parties. She loved going to movies. In 1983, she appeared as herself in Woody Allen\'s "Zelig" (Orbach would have a featured role in Mr. Allen\'s "Crimes and Misdemeanors" in 1989).'b'For a while, I got to know Sontag and Orbach in that glancing New York way that is always too brief, or too late, to lead to friendship. I liked them both very much. Sontag enjoyed talking about movies, and pop fiction, and I remember asking her one night at dinner in the 1970\'s if she\'d ever considered writing a detective story. "First," she said, "I\'d have to invent the person who is writing the detective story." Then she laughed. Later, in "In America," she did just that -- exploring the possibilities of historical fiction by inventing a narrator. Free of the rigors of the essay, she seemed exuberant in its pages, as if they had made her young again.'b'Around the same time, I got to know Orbach and his first wife, Marta. At dinner, Orbach was immensely curious about other people, as most good actors are, and many New Yorkers. We are the city of people who are not like us. Among the objects of his curiosity were gangsters. After 1971, he focused on the gangster Joey Gallo. In the film made from Jimmy Breslin\'s 1969 novel, "The Gang That Couldn\'t Shoot Straight," he had played a character based on Gallo, who was known in the tabloids as "Crazy Joe." When the real gangster emerged from prison, he wanted to meet the man who had played him in the movie, and the meeting was arranged by a New York cop!'b'The two liked each other very much indeed. Gallo had spent much of his prison time reading, and could quote Camus and talk about Kafka. He had the sort of cynical intelligence you find in many New Yorkers without great formal education, and that could be entertaining. Marta started helping him with his autobiography.'b"Then on the night of April 7, 1972, Jerry and Marta went to the Copacabana to help Joey Gallo celebrate his 43rd birthday. They caught the midnight show, with Don Rickles, and apparently had a marvelous time. The Orbachs later claimed they went home after the show, but more than 30 years later details remain a blur. What is clear is that Joey Gallo and some other hoodlums then drove downtown to Umberto's Clam House in Little Italy. Most likely they did not discuss Camus or Kafka. Gunmen came in the back door around 4 a.m. and shot Joe Gallo to death."b'This was a supreme New York moment, full of tradition, an endorsement of certain eternal verities, one that brought immense joy to the life of newspaper editors. Everybody talked about it, and years later I asked Sontag if she remembered where she was when it happened. She didn\'t, but she said, with a melancholy smile: "I wish I\'d had the chance to talk to Joe Gallo before he died."'b'The Orbachs stayed out of the spotlight after the shooting, but I saw them the following New Year\'s Eve. The place was called Jimmy\'s, on West 52nd Street, near "21." One of those ghastly New Year\'s Eve parties was under way, where you pay to wear funny hats and blow on noisemakers. I was at the bar, as usual. The Orbachs were at a table with a few second-rate gangsters and other friends. I went over briefly to say hello, and retreated to the bar. Then a singer named Buddy Greco came on to sing "Lulu\'s Back in Town." I said to myself that I\'d never do this again.'b"The next day, I gave up drinking. I'll be dry 32 years New Year's Day, but I'll think of Jerry Orbach again on the night before, and wish that he had arranged that conversation between Susan Sontag and Joe Gallo. And taped it for the New York record."b'Op-Ed Contributor Pete Hamill is the author, most recently, of "Downtown: My Manhattan."'b"Thomas Suozzi is bullish on Nassau. He'd better be: he is up for re-election as county executive this year and needs voters to be as happy as he is. And so the doom and gloom early in his term have lifted, and his forecast through November, if not longer, is for sunny skies."b'Mr. Suozzi has delivered on many promises. Nassau has a balanced budget that does not raise property taxes; its tax revenues and bond ratings are up; crime is down; the payroll is leaner. The county is no longer a bloated basket case, and is pursuing efficiency through an array of so-called smart-government initiatives, like consolidating eight health and human services departments under one roof.'b"Mr. Suozzi says Nassau now tackles problems by managing existing resources more intelligently. Much has been fixed already, he says, and for everything else, there is a plan. Mr. Suozzi will be the first to tell you that the county still has problems, dating in many cases to previous administrations. He is right, of course, that Nassau used to be a Republican clown car, and that Thomas Gulotta ran it into a tree. But Mr. Suozzi got the keys three years ago. It's time to declare the statute of limitations on blaming Republicans over, and to insist that credit and blame for Nassau's fortunes henceforth rest on Mr. Suozzi's capable shoulders."b'With that in mind, we will watch with great interest to see how Mr. Suozzi tackles the following issues in the year ahead:'b'Redevelopment. Mr. Suozzi\'s big dream is of a "new suburbia," with the central Nassau hub as its economic engine, where mass transit, jobs and housing bring new life to depressed communities, minority neighborhoods and brownfields. Even Mr. Suozzi admits this is a job of years, not months, but it is still fair to expect concrete progress in 2005.'b'Parks. Mr. Suozzi wants to trade away some county parks to towns and villages, which he says can manage them better. But it is far from clear whether local governments want them or can care for them -- and whether this approach will leave the parks better off than when Mr. Suozzi inherited them.'b'Gangs. Mr. Suozzi appointed a "gang czar" last year, but that is not enough. The county\'s anti-gang effort needs to add police officers and adopt an integrated approach involving social programs, law enforcement and rehabilitation. Mr. Suozzi has promised this; will he deliver?'b'Budget and taxes. The county comptroller, Howard Weitzman, predicts budget deficits of $260 million in 2006 and $370 million in 2007. We hope Mr. Suozzi is right when he says the county is now in good shape to deal with them later.'b"Integrity. Mr. Suozzi's administration has not always been the paragon of squeaky cleanliness and efficiency. A deputy county executive quit under a cloud of financial impropriety, and Mr. Weitzman, a Democrat, has pointed out administrative abuses, waste and disorganization at various county agencies, like the Nassau jail. We hope that Mr. Suozzi continues his efforts to tame and repair the bureaucracy -- and that the comptroller maintains his aggressive scrutiny of it."b'The Future. Mr. Suozzi is planning a $1,000-a-head fund-raiser this month, with entertainment by Tony Bennett -- rather heavy artillery for a mere county executive. But Mr. Suozzi is a man in a hurry -- to run, some say, for governor in 2006. After setting out to fix Glen Cove, then Nassau, then Albany, he gives no sign of being content to sit still.'b'This restlessness poses a bit of a problem for Nassau residents. The people who are rooting for Mr. Suozzi -- ourselves included -- can be forgiven for wondering whether they will still be sitting around long after he has declared their problems fixed, solved, done -- and gotten himself outta there.'b"One of the sorriest chapters of American history, the gulling of native Indian tribes, is continuing apace in Washington, where two Capitol insiders close to the House majority leader, Tom DeLay, are being investigated for allegedly fleecing six tribes of more than $80 million with inflated promises of V.I.P. access. The shameful dealings of Jack Abramoff, a Republican power lobbyist, and Michael Scanlon, Mr. DeLay's former spokesman, are coming to light as Senate and Justice Department investigators follow leads from nouveau-riche tribes whose casino profits spurred a new category of lucre and greed in the hyperkinetic world of Washington lobbying."b'Even as the two fast-talking political brokers banked large profits for three years of minimal labor, it was found, they were exchanging gleeful private messages mocking tribal leaders as "morons," "troglodytes" and "monkeys." "I want all their MONEY!!!" Mr. Scanlon exuberantly e-mailed in the midst of one deal.'b'The outrageous affair includes evidence that the two sought to manipulate tribal elections to ensure their lobbying boondoggles, while dropping the names of Mr. DeLay and other leaders and urging tribal contributions to Republican political funds. In the latest high-roller abuses laid bare by The Washington Post, Mr. Abramoff was found to have prodded the tribes to pay for his luxury skyboxes at Washington sports arenas -- yes, even at the home of the football Redskins -- so he could impress Capitol politicians, staff members and fund-raisers with swank perches to push causes unrelated to tribal issues. A colleague pronounced Mr. Abramoff a master of schmooze, but sleaze seems a far better word.'b'While the Senate Indian Affairs Committee is continuing its inquiry, the Republican House leadership remains mute. The gulling of the casino tribes is a blot on Congress and the lobbying industry that cries out for a thorough public vetting. But no one is taking any bets, particularly at tribal casinos, that Capitol politicians can fully face the task.'b'New Yorkers wishing for a civilized political climate in this mayoral election year have every reason to expect something better in 2005 -- it would be difficult to imagine a nastier campaign than the last one, when even the somber shadow of Sept. 11 could not stave off weeks of inflammatory racial charges and countercharges.'b"Let's hope that in this new year all the mayoral hopefuls are resolving to take a high road, particularly when it comes to any discussion of race."b"That would at least be a start to exorcising the ghost of the election past, when supporters of Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, and Mark Green, then the public advocate, helped to implode their party's chances by using race and ethnicity as a cudgel. Mr. Green won the primary, but residual hard feelings caused a rift with a large number of blacks and Hispanics. The beneficiary and ultimate winner was the Republican candidate, Michael R. Bloomberg."b"As befits a New York election, the field of potential mayoral candidates is diverse. Mr. Ferrer, who is Puerto Rican, will try a third time to become the city's first Hispanic mayor. While Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. has decided to run for re-election rather than take on Mr. Bloomberg, two other African-American elected officials are planning to try for the Democratic nomination: C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, and Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn. Representative Anthony D. Weiner, whose district includes Brooklyn and Queens, and Gifford Miller, the city council speaker -- both white -- are all but formally announced candidates."b"Mr. Bloomberg was at best a mediocre candidate last time, distinguished mainly by the vast amount he spent from his personal fortune. But his image seemed blessedly bland compared with the coarseness that came to surround the Ferrer and Green campaigns -- much of it the work of the candidates' supporters, like those who distributed ugly anti-Ferrer fliers in Brooklyn and linked the candidate to the Rev. Al Sharpton."b"It is distressing that there have already been ethnically charged words in this campaign. Ruben Diaz Jr., an assemblyman from the Bronx, leaped on Mr. Bloomberg after his office raised questions about the recent hiring of a lobbyist -- a Latina with ties to Mr. Ferrer -- by opponents of his plan to build a stadium on the West Side. The charge of ethnic insensitivity seems silly, considering that the mayor doesn't like anyone to oppose his pet project, which promises to be a major campaign issue that could especially help Mr. Ferrer. Still, the reaction Mr. Bloomberg got showed that bitterness is still running on fumes now four years old. All candidates need to be attuned to that fact, and the offended parties need to move past their grudges."b'Urging candidates not to play the race card does not, of course, mean that the campaign should steer clear of the issues in which race is a critical factor -- the disproportionate unemployment rate of minorities is one example. But the potential candidates, all seasoned politicians, know -- or should know -- how to talk about serious subjects without cynically using them to inflame racial antagonism.'b"New York's problems are mainly color blind, though they always fall hardest on the predominantly black and Latino poor. For another year, New York faces a multibillion-dollar budget shortfall. Teachers, firefighters and police officers still have no contracts. There are financial crises in public transportation and in public hospitals. Affordable housing is in critically short supply, and the number of homeless people is at a record high. Schools need a plan to get more teachers and classroom space."b'The only criterion for choosing the next mayor is which man or women can best tackle the long list of weighty issues. New Yorkers should reject any candidate who tries to tell them otherwise.'b'The most unusual words in Marilynne Robinson\'s new novel, "Gilead," are probably "Horeb" and "Nishnabotna." One is a synonym for the biblical Mount Sinai and the other is the name of a river in southwest Iowa, where the novel is set. I imagine them occurring on a single map--Horeb in Kansas Territory, before the Civil War, the Nishnabotna flowing through the corner of present-day Iowa, and not far away the small town of Gilead, presided over by an old minister named John Ames, who is dying at age 77 in the year 1956.'b'All the other words in "Gilead" are as plain as plain can be. It feels as though Marilynne Robinson rounded up the most ordinary words in the English language and herded them into a single corral, where she could sort them and newly dignify them by turning them into the thoughts of this quiet old man.'b'Here is John Ames thinking out loud in a letter to his very young son -- imagining what it will be like to remember this world after dying. "In eternity this world will be Troy, I believe, and all that has passed here will be the epic of the universe, the ballad they sing in the streets. Because I don\'t imagine any reality putting this one in the shade entirely, and I think piety forbids me to try." It\'s one thing to bring Troy, a Christian notion of eternity, and the need to write epics and sing street ballads together into a single sentence. As for the whole of this human, earthly reality being put in the shade, to use Ames\'s wonderful old saying -- well, it\'s hard to imagine more theology, good sense and day-to-day poetry packed into a simpler phrase.'b'Plain as John Ames\'s language is, there is nothing threadbare about it. Perhaps the same can be said of where he lives. Like so many small Iowa towns, Gilead, by 1956, was reaching its very humble peak. The ferocity of a militant theology -- the Nazirite prospect of Ames\'s grandfather, who preached against slavery with a pistol in his belt -- has faded to something much more in keeping with the decorum of "a dogged little outpost in the sand hills, within striking distance of Kansas." Yet it has remained, as well, a dogged little outpost of faith -- a faith that has grown richer and kinder and more tolerant of human frailty even as it has grown more unassuming.'b'It seems to me that "Gilead" perfectly captures a note that has been lost in so much recent public discourse about religion in contemporary America -- perhaps because it has become "public" discourse.'b'"Gilead" is made up of the reflections of a man who has devoted his whole life to his church. Sometimes that service means doing a little plumbing for an elderly parishioner. Sometimes it means fending off questions about predestination. Above all it means a steady, quiet wrangling within himself about the certainties he has discovered over the years. John Ames\'s faith is crowned with doubt, and his doubt is crowned with faith. The radicalism that moved his grandfather has been transmuted into something richer and altogether more human and forgiving.'b"One of the reasons John Ames can look around Gilead with such affection -- this narrow little town where he has lived his entire life -- is because he practices a religion of acceptance. Not the acceptance of one's plight -- a submissive suffering under the hand of circumstance -- but an acceptance of the complexity, the subtlety of human character and human yearning seen in a longer light than any one of us can know. His job, in Gilead, is not to impose the word of God, to bring doctrine down upon the heads of his congregation. It is to listen to the wisdom of the old books -- the Bible; Calvin's Institutes; the works of Karl Barth, John Donne, George Herbert, even Ludwig Feuerbach -- and compare them to what it is possible to know of human nature as it exists in a small town set on the edge of the prairie."b'And it is also to use the plain language of his neighbors, to show them their own beauty, and the beauty of where they live, in their own tongue. The day comes after a long night, and it is "one more of the very finite number of days that this old prairie has been called Kansas, or Iowa. But it has all been one day, that first day. Light is constant, we just turn over in it."'b'You see what I mean. Plain as the sun itself.'b"WE stood by the patient's bedside, trying to determine why she was so confused. At 60, she was young for a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. We had been called because her doctors wondered whether the brain atrophy revealed on her CT scan -- coupled with her weight loss and recent episode of shingles -- might point instead to AIDS-related dementia."b"AIDS dementia is treatable, with a much better prognosis than Alzheimer's disease. But this woman wasn't able to give us permission to test her for H.I.V. She thought the year was 1947, stared vacantly while we tried to explain why she should have the test and couldn't coherently repeat what we had told her."b"A week after this encounter, a nurse at the hospital where we work stuck her finger with a needle that had been used to draw a patient's blood. The patient, a 45-year-old man, had been rendered unconscious by injuries sustained in an auto accident. While he didn't have any known risk factors for H.I.V., the danger was still there. After all, research suggests that at least 4 percent of men 40 to 49 years old living in New York City are infected with the virus."b'Medical workers possibly exposed to H.I.V. undergo a month of treatment with antiretroviral medications -- treatment that greatly reduces the possibility of becoming infected but that costs about $1,000 and frequently causes unpleasant side effects. Because we could not test our unconscious patient for H.I.V., we had no choice but to put the nurse on a course of treatment.'b'What do these two events have in common? What interfered with the diagnostic evaluation of a demented woman and prevented the appropriate investigation of a possible case of H.I.V. transmission?'b'The answer: New York State law. In New York, it is illegal to test for H.I.V. without first counseling a patient and getting informed consent. And if a patient lacks the capacity to consent to a test, only a previously designated health-care proxy or a court-appointed guardian can consent on his or her behalf. Spouses, lovers, relatives or doctors have no authority to do so.'b'This law, passed in 1989, must be changed -- for the sake of both patients and health-care workers.'b'At the time it was written, the law made sense. Back then, AIDS was a much feared and stigmatized disease with few treatment options. Protection of patient confidentiality was a critical component of dealing with the growing epidemic.'b'But the stigma and fear have lessened over time, and our treatment arsenal has grown exponentially. H.I.V. is now a treatable, chronic disease. And the law created to support patient confidentiality and self-determination in the early years of the epidemic now often hinders our ability to diagnose or treat those who cannot make the decision to be tested -- the critically ill, neurologically impaired or mentally ill.'b'Sadly, there will be more of these cases. Although AIDS remains a disease of the young, it is now being seen in older patients. H.I.V. is already considered in the diagnosis of elderly patients lacking the ability to make decisions because of strokes or dementia.'b'For these reasons, the law should be amended in two ways.'b'First, it should permit exceptions to the informed-consent rule when physicians consider H.I.V. a reasonable possibility in evaluating a patient without the ability to make medical decisions. Strict confidentiality about results would be maintained, as it is for patients who have consented to testing.'b"Second, the law should require testing of all patients, regardless of ability to give consent, when a medical worker has had significant exposure to a patient's blood. In 2001, our hospital petitioned the court to permit H.I.V. testing of a comatose patient after a nurse stuck herself with a needle contaminated by the patient's blood. The judge denied the request, basing his decision on the law we wish to see amended."b'Public-health medicine has always had to find a balance between individual rights and the common good. More often than not, health officials act wisely. In certain circumstances, people can be involuntarily quarantined. Patients with active tuberculosis who do not take their medicine can be held in hospitals until their disease is no longer communicable.'b"Isn't it reasonable, then, to mandate testing for H.I.V. if there are grounds to suspect that the virus might have been transmitted to a health-care worker?"b"If we are to make the latest treatments available to all and protect the public, we must rewrite New York State's law on consent for H.I.V. testing. Such a change is ethical, practical -- and long overdue."b'Op-Ed Contributors Ellen A. B. Morrison is director of the H.I.V. Counseling &amp; Testing Service and Kenneth Prager is chairman of the Medical Ethics Committee at New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University campus.'b'WALKING along Manhattan\'s 23rd Street the other day, I noticed an ad on a bus-stop shelter for the History Channel\'s new series about the French Revolution: "For Two Hours, It Won\'t Kill You to Love the French," it said.'b'As a Parisian who recently moved to New York, I have not personally encountered any American hostility toward me as a French citizen. But I am amazed by the proliferation of French-bashing in the media.'b'If you go on the Internet, you have a vast choice of anti-French Web sites, some selling products (T-shirts emblazoned with insults, for instance), others offering long lists of hilarious "French jokes."'b'Of course, you could argue that the excesses of bloggers do not paint an accurate picture of American sentiment. You could argue, too, against reading too much into The New York Post\'s references to President Jacques Chirac of France as a "weasel." It\'s true that the days of "freedom fries" are behind us and that any recent dent in French exports is more likely the result of a weak dollar than a boycott of French goods. (Back in the days leading up to the war in Iraq, a friend in California called to tell me about a local TV commercial for rotisserie-cooked chicken that began: "Don\'t be a chicken like the French. Eat it.")'b'But the hysteria of French-bashing has given way to a more insidious form of bias. For example, it was humbling for us French to watch Democratic operatives desperately trying to hide John Kerry\'s French relatives -- who had come to be with him at the Democratic convention -- from the press. And it was rather funny to hear the advice given by some TV pundits to Mr. Kerry minutes before the first debate: "Don\'t speak French." (He didn\'t, and by the way, it made no difference.) And whether in rustic tabloid lingo or in the more refined language of broadsheets, the typical out-of-touch East Coast liberal is more often than not "French speaking" or "Bordeaux drinking."'b'Then there are the jabs delivered by all those late-night comedians. It has become fashionable -- even commonplace -- in the American media to associate the French with things cowardly, despicable, unfaithful, ungrateful or foul-smelling. In addition to the (more conventional) complaint about Gallic arrogance.'b'Here in the country of political correctness, where the mainstream press treads on eggshells when talking about race, religion, nation or ethnicity, French-bashing, it would seem, has become politically correct.'b"Why the French exception? Several reasons spring to mind. France's opposition to the war in Iraq is the first, of course. This has infuriated the political establishment -- Republicans and Democrats alike. And during times of war, patriotic sentiment can quickly become xenophobic. Having cast themselves in the role of Cassandra (who was endowed with the gift of prophecy but not with the talent of making herself heard), the French should not be surprised by the American Agamemnon's resentment."b'To go back in history a bit, France is one of the few major European countries to have never undergone any widespread immigration to America. So there is no French minority to pander to, no French lobby to placate.'b"Also, the French delude themselves in valorizing their historical relationship to America: Lafayette vs. Eisenhower, the Statue of Liberty vs. the Marshall Plan -- there is something wrong, even shocking, about comparing France's help during America's War of Independence with the role of America in the two World Wars."b"As a French citizen, I am appalled that the French news media, the judicial system and members of Parliament have shown so little interest in the French role in the scandal surrounding the United Nations' oil-for-food program."b'Does that make me anti-French? The very notion of being "against" a nationality -- American, Israeli, Arab -- is repellent to me. It is one thing to disagree over political matters or to be severely critical of another country\'s policy. It is quite another to indulge in a general expression of contempt, or even hatred, for a society, its history, its culture and its people.'b'Americans themselves are sometimes confronted with this kind of absurd hostility abroad. Of all nationalities, they should be the first to stay away from it. After all, diversity and respect for other cultures are among the core values on which America was founded -- and by which Americans thrive.'b'It did not kill the French to be hated for two years. But it did us no good, and did not help Americans much, either. So what about liking us again? For starters, just for two hours.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Antoine Audouard is the author of "Farewell, My Only One."'b'If you\'ve lent even one ear to the administration\'s recent comments on Social Security, you have no doubt heard President Bush and his aides asserting that a $10 trillion shortfall threatens the retirement system -- and the economy itself. That $10 trillion hole is the basis of the president\'s claim last month that "the [Social Security] crisis is now." It\'s also the basis of the administration\'s claim that the cost of doing nothing to reform the system would be far greater than the cost of acting now.'b'Well, the $10 trillion figure is the closest you can get to pulling a number out of the air. Make that the ether. Starting last year, as the groundwork was being set for the emerging debate, the Social Security trustees took the liberty of projecting the system\'s solvency over infinity, rather than sticking to the traditional 75-year time horizon. That world-without-end assumption generates the scary $10 trillion estimate, and with it, Mr. Bush\'s putative rationale for dismantling Social Security in favor of a system centered on private savings accounts. The American Academy of Actuaries, the profession\'s premier trade association, objected to the change. In a letter to the trustees, the actuaries wrote that infinite projections provide "little if any useful information about the program\'s long-range finances and indeed are likely to mislead any [nonexpert] into believing that the program is in far worse financial condition than is actually indicated."'b"As it often does with dissenting professional opinion, the administration is ignoring the actuaries. But that doesn't alter the facts or common sense. If the $10 trillion figure is essentially bogus, so is the claim that Social Security is in crisis. The assertion that doing nothing would be costlier than enacting a privatization plan also turns out to be wrong, by the estimates of Congress's own budget agency."b"Over a 75-year time frame, Social Security's shortfall is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office at $2 trillion and by the Social Security trustees at $3.7 trillion, a manageable sliver of the economy in each case. If the shortfall is on the low side, Social Security will be in the black until 2052, when it will be able to pay out 80 percent of the promised benefits. If it is on the high side, the system will pay full benefits until 2042, when it will cover 70 percent."b"Contrary to Mr. Bush's frequent assertion that Social Security is constantly imperiled by political meddling, it has in fact been preserved and improved by political intervention throughout its 70-year history, most significantly in 1983. The system could -- and should -- be strengthened again by a modest package of benefit cuts and tax increases phased in over decades."b'Instead, the administration wants workers to divert some of the payroll taxes that currently pay for Social Security into private investment accounts, in exchange for a much-reduced government benefit. To replace the taxes it would otherwise have collected -- money it needs to pay benefits to current and near retirees -- the government would borrow an estimated $2 trillion over the next 10 years or so and even more thereafter.'b"In effect, the administration's plan would get rid of the financial burden of Social Security by getting rid of Social Security. The plan shifts the financial risk of growing old onto each individual and off of the government -- where it is dispersed among a very large population, as with any sensible insurance policy. In a privatized system, you may do fine, but your fellow retirees may not, or vice versa."b"In any event, doing well under privatization is relative. Congress's budget agency analyzed the privatized plan that is widely regarded as the template for future legislation and found that total retirement benefits -- including payouts from the private account plus the government subsidy -- would be less than under the present system. The amount available from the privatized system was less even after midcentury, when the current system is projected to come up short."b"It should come as no shock that individual investors might not do as well as hoped. The stock market's historical returns -- some 7 percent a year -- are predicated on a hypothetical investor who bought an array of stocks in the past, reinvested all dividends, never cashed in and never paid commissions or fees. That's not how investing works in the real world. An especially grave danger is that investors would withdraw their funds before retirement, a pattern that is pronounced in 401(k) plans. It would be politically very difficult to refuse people access to accounts that were sold to them on the premise that they -- not the government -- would own them."b'The Congressional Budget Office analysis also likely understates the costs to individuals of privatizing Social Security. The borrowing that would be needed to establish private accounts could lead to higher interest rates, a weaker dollar and slower economic growth. It is also likely that future tax hikes would be required to cover the interest payments on the additional national debt.'b'The only hands-down winner would be Wall Street, as fees to manage millions of accounts poured in. (Those fees, not incidentally, would come out of your return.) Current stockholders would also stand to benefit, as increased demand pushed up stock prices, giving existing owners a gain at the expense of newcomers who would be forced to buy high. The affluent, who could afford professional investing advice, would also be advantaged, even though everyone would be taking the same risks.'b"The zeal over privatization is fueled by the belief of Mr. Bush and his supporters that free-market fixes are appropriate for virtually every problem. That faith is misguided. For a society to be functional and humane, it's not enough that some people have a chance to be rich in old age. Rather, all old people must have the dignity of financial security, and that requires universal coverage."b"Social Security is the core tier of old-age support, replacing about a third of preretirement income for a typical retiree and providing inflation-proof income for life -- a feature not available in private accounts. Its purpose is not to supplant other retirement investing, but to provide a crucial safety net. Anyone who wants to maintain his or her standard of living into old age must also amass substantial personal savings and investments. To introduce the same risk into the core tier of benefits that already exists for the bulk of one's retirement savings would be as unfair as it is unwise."b"If Mr. Bush were not so serious about privatizing Social Security, his urgency would be silly. Compared with other challenges looming for the government, it's a non-problem. The shortfall in the Medicare hospital insurance fund is two to three times the size of the Social Security shortfall, and that fund is projected to be insolvent some two to three decades before Social Security. Taken together, the costs of the Medicare prescription benefit and of making the tax cuts permanent -- Mr. Bush's two main domestic initiatives -- are 5 to 8.5 times larger. And his hair is on fire over Social Security?"b"One of the most distressing aspects of the debate over Social Security privatization is that it distracts from more pressing issues and obscures better solutions to the problem of secure retirement. A future editorial will discuss new strategies to increase private savings outside of Social Security that draw on market theory and behavioral economics and are more promising than rehashing the same tired formula of tax-sheltered savings accounts. In the meantime, however, Mr. Bush and his supporters will be pursuing their id\xc3\xa9e fixe of privatization. It's bad policy. And it's bad politics, too, driven by reflex, ideology and special interests, and sustained by conformism that masquerades as party discipline. Lawmakers who still value their right and obligation to think for themselves -- and to act in the best interest of their constituents -- must champion solutions that will build on Social Security, not undermine it."b'A previous editorial, "How to Save Social Security," is available online at nytimes.com/opinion.   Editorial'b'WASHINGTON - LA plus \xc3\xa7a change. In 1965, when President Lyndon Johnson sent marines to the Dominican Republic to protect American citizens during a violent civil war, President Charles de Gaulle of France condemned the intervention. In a secret message to Washington, however, he asked for help defending the French Embassy. Johnson did so, but never heard a word of thanks, in public or private. Instead, de Gaulle went on to demand that the United States withdraw from Vietnam and, eventually, to pull his own forces out of NATO.'b'George W. Bush must know exactly how Johnson felt. Shortly after Mr. Bush\'s re-election, the current French president, Jacques Chirac, called the post-Saddam Hussein world "more dangerous," announced that the United States doesn\'t "return favors" to Europe and even accused Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld of "a lack of culture." He managed to stuff all these comments into a single interview, which happened to coincide with Mr. Bush\'s firm support for a French military crackdown in the Ivory Coast, where antigovernment insurgents have endangered French citizens, the last remnant of Paris\'s colonial regime there.'b'Yet it\'s a mistake to assume that Mr. Chirac\'s rhetoric was just a clumsy expression of pent-up frustration with American voters. French foreign policy in the 1960\'s was not driven by a leader\'s personal antipathy for a brash Texan in the White House, and neither is today\'s. Regime change in the United States might have led John Kerry to slap Mr. Chirac on the back and say, "Lafayette, we are here!" -- but nothing would have altered the underlying fact that France has for decades viewed the United States as a unique threat.'b'The root of the problem is Gaullism itself. More than just a form of nationalism, Gaullism insists that France must exert an outsized influence on the course of human events. During the cold war, de Gaulle spoke of his country leading Europe as "one of three world powers and, if need be one day, the arbiter between the two camps, the Soviet and the Anglo-Saxon." Hence de Gaulle developed a nuclear arsenal, threatened to destabilize the dollar and criticized American military actions.'b'Mr. Chirac and his neo-Gaullists recognize that France can no longer serve as a fulcrum between East and West, but they believe their country still has a vital role to play in containing the world\'s "hyperpower," in their pejorative labeling of the United States. On the cultural front, this agenda can manifest itself in bizarre rear guard actions. Most ridiculously, a French court has declared that the film "Un Long Dimanche de Fian\xc3\xa7ailles" ("A Very Long Engagement") is not eligible to compete in French film festivals, despite having being filmed in France, in the French language, with hundreds of French actors and technicians. Its offense: receiving financial backing from Warner Brothers.'b"In world politics, the French are much more aggressive. Before the invasion of Iraq, Paris didn't just express reservations -- it tried to sabotage American goals in every feasible venue, from the chambers of the Security Council to the committee rooms of NATO. Since then, it has issued a raft of demands, including the hasty transfer of sovereignty to an ad hoc Iraqi government, as well as a date certain by which the United States will remove its troops, no matter the circumstances."b"Mr. Chirac's diplomats even spent October lobbying unsuccessfully for Iraqi insurgent groups -- the ones now killing American troops and Iraqi civilians -- to be represented at the international summit in Egypt in November. It is difficult to see how French interests are furthered in any way by this behavior, unless France is understood to believe that its own aims are advanced whenever American ones are thwarted."b'Dean Acheson once was asked to recommend a course of action with respect to de Gaulle. He advised an "empty chair" policy -- that is, French-American relations would improve only after de Gaulle had left the scene. This wait-and-see approach may have made sense at the time, but not today. While Mr. Chirac is 72, he might seek an unprecedented third term in 2007. Even if he doesn\'t, his successor could be Dominique de Villepin, the former foreign minister who under heavy questioning found himself unable to say he hoped for an American military victory in Iraq. Whatever happens, neo-Gaullism will continue to inform French attitudes.'b'Condoleezza Rice, now Mr. Bush\'s nominee for secretary of state, was quoted in 2003 as telling colleagues that the United States should "punish France." This is a tempting tactic, for it holds out the promise of vengeful satisfaction. It was also the motive behind the recent campaigns to boycott French products. Unbeknownst to most of the participants, however, the consumer strategy was tried without much success in the 1960\'s. In truth, Paris isn\'t worth a boycott.'b"Thinking otherwise only buys into the Gaullist claim that France should occupy a place of reverence in the community of nations. But why should its views matter any more than, say, Italy, whose population and economy are nearly the same size? The United States may choose to work with France on a few areas of mutual diplomatic interest -- Haiti and perhaps Iran -- but in general, the marginal amounts of aid and peacekeeping help Paris can offer hardly merit concessions on our part. And if France threatens to undermine American interests with its Security Council veto, we should call its bluff, pointing out that such behavior merely weakens the institution that is the prime source of France's undeserved prestige. (Despite all the bluster, France has not used its veto power unilaterally since 1976.)"b"Moreover, making an example of the French is precisely the wrong approach because it elevates France in the eyes of the world's anti-Americans, who will always be with us. The one thing France and the neo-Gaullists can't possibly abide is being ignored. Perhaps that's punishment enough."b'Op-Ed Contributor John J. Miller is a writer for National Review and co-author of "Our Oldest Enemy: A History of America\'s Disastrous Relationship with France."'b"About three months ago, while visiting my birth country, Liberia, I walked into a local restaurant for a prearranged meeting with the father of an old school friend. His daughter and I had attended grammar school together as children, and although I don't see her much these days, I still identify her with my childhood: Girl Scout troop meetings; field trips up country to the zoo; sixth-grade class dances. I was delivering to her father some shirts he had requested from Ghana."b'He was sitting at a table in the corner of the restaurant with a young girl. As soon as I saw them, I felt the anger rising in my throat. She couldn\'t have been any more than 16; he is pushing 70. "This is my little friend," he introduced her to me.'b'There was no shame or embarrassment in his tone; he was perfectly comfortable with parading a teenage war orphan with no other means of support around town as his new girlfriend.'b'Indeed, his behavior was not out of the ordinary. Just the night before, another mature man of means, this one a former government minister, had bragged at a wedding reception that his current "girlfriend" was getting too old for him. "She just turned 17," he said, laughing. People around him shook their heads in a "boys will be boys" way.'b'The news last month that the United Nations has uncovered 150 allegations of sexual abuse committed by its peacekeepers stationed in Congo against an already traumatized population of mostly teenage girls was a sad reminder of what young women are up against in Africa.'b'The allegations leveled against United Nations personnel in Congo include sex with under-age partners and rape. Investigators said they found evidence that United Nations peacekeepers paid $1 to $3 for sex or bartered sexual relations for food or promises of employment.'b'To be sure, sexual, psychological and physical abuse of teenage girls is not limited to Africa. Indeed, the United Nations reports that the accused peacekeepers came from Nepal, Pakistan, Morocco, Tunisia, South Africa and Uruguay -- a veritable gallery of international perverts. But in Congo, as in other places where endless war has broken down normal social constraints, innocence is robbed with impunity, and unrelenting poverty and desperation make old, bitter and used women out of the young girls.'b"African girls have long lived with the fear of being raped by power-drunk soldiers representing various government or rebel groups. The life of a teenage girl on the continent is almost never easy, and the threats she faces are uncountable, from female genital mutilation to teenage prostitution. The raping of women and young girls has become practically de rigueur in Africa's wars, from Sierra Leone to the Ivory Coast, from Burundi to Rwanda to Sudan."b"Beyond rape in war zones, there's a mentality that says that sex between a desperate refugee and a wealthy old man is somehow consensual. In Monrovia, which is a postwar mess with war orphans sleeping alongside open roads, electricity a distant dream and food scarce, young girls living in the refugee camps engage in a ritual as old as time."b"In the evenings, as the sun is beginning to set, they leave the fetid, trash-strewn camps and assemble along the main roads. Dressed in the best attire they can muster -- tight jeans, strappy high-heeled sandals and halter tops -- they wait for the fancy S.U.V.'s that slow down, then stop to pick them up and take them into the city for the night."b"The United Nations says home countries are responsible for punishing any of their military personnel who violate the U.N. code of conduct. That's a prescription for inaction, because, regrettably, too many leaders, and not just in Africa, see no problem with picking up young girls on the side of the road at night."b'Looking at the face of my friend\'s father that afternoon in the restaurant, I could see my friend\'s features. His lunch companion was the same age my friend and I had been when we cavorted around as teenagers. We watched "Charlie\'s Angels" and experimented with makeup and went to the Saturday afternoon matinees. Our biggest problems revolved around crushes on various boys and hoping against hope that whoever we liked wouldn\'t find out we liked them.'b'I wondered if the old man ever thought about his own daughter when he looked at his "little friend." My guess is, probably not.'b'WASHINGTON - Reached late Sunday night at his farm in Israel  where Mediterranean breezes bring him the sounds of Palestinian rockets aimed at the nearby town of Sderot -- Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says, "I might not have a majority in the Knesset."'b"That was a shocker, coming toward the end of a long telephone talk. Didn't Sharon's Likud strike a deal last week with Labor's Shimon Peres, which -- along with a far-right party -- would give Sharon a solid governing majority?"b'"We agreed with the Labor Party," he said, "but have problems with an ultra-Orthodox party. They changed their mind under heavy pressure from radical rabbis of the settlers. And part of my own party is against joining with Labor. If I don\'t have a majority this week, then maybe we\'ll have to go to elections."'b"He views this with equanimity because his popular support in Israel is soaring; Danny Ayalon, Israel's ambassador to the U.S., reports it to be over 65 percent. Hopes among Israelis are on the rise after the announcement of Sharon's plan to unilaterally disengage from Gaza and four West Bank communities. This was followed by the death of the rejectionist Arafat, and by the likelihood that Palestinians will elect the antiviolence Mahmoud Abbas, better known as Abu Mazen, next Sunday."b"Would Sharon's possible need for an election to reaffirm his leadership paralyze his plan for pulling the 8,000 Israeli settlers out of Gaza, now being scheduled to begin in June?"b'"No. The left cannot do it, and much of the right -- my side -- is against it. An election now would be a major mistake for Israel, but even if it becomes necessary, I will go ahead with disengagement."'b"His threat to take the issue to the people may scare many politicians on the far right -- who would lose their seats -- to rally to Sharon's side. If not, he's ready to go to the people."b'But disengagement or relocation, euphemisms for withdrawal, need no longer be a one-sided act: it may now be possible to use this plan as a way to open talks.'b'"We have a window of opportunity, after the death of Arafat and the re-election of President Bush, to break the stalemate of negotiation and replace it with a strategy of reconciliation."'b'In the next breath, however, Sharon notes that "the Palestinians have 30,000 armed security people who still find it hard to fight terrorists. Not the slightest step has been taken so far."'b'Abu Mazen caused consternation last week by letting himself be borne aloft by a crowd of gunmen and promising the radicals he would protect them from Israeli retaliation. That was an awkward attempt to persuade the gunmen to vote for him, but Secretary of State Colin Powell realistically told Tim Russert on "Meet the Press" yesterday that if such persuasion fails, "he may have to undertake operations against them."'b'Sharon says only "I understand it\'s the eve of an election. We do not interfere so as not to make it harder for him, but I believe Abu Mazen will be elected. Then if the Palestinian Authority starts to coordinate between our security services, and if they -- not Hamas, not the Jihad -- take charge of the areas we are leaving, I will coordinate disengagement.'b'"After their election, we\'ll see if they take the steps to stop the terror. If they do, it will be also quiet on our side." That seems to me to accept a cease-fire, qualified with "but if we have intelligence of a terrorist attack, we\'ll have to act."'b'A further caveat: "It would be clearly impossible to evacuate under fire. With thousands of cars and trucks relocating women, children, animals, we will tolerate no attacks during withdrawal. I told the Egyptians to pass the word that if these people come under fire, Israel\'s reaction will be very hard."'b'I\'m hopeful that Abu Mazen, if elected, will prove tough-minded enough not to let that happen, even if it requires using the Palestinian Authority\'s 30,000 troops to "undertake operations" against Palestinian insurgents.'b'Are you optimistic, Arik Sharon, about 2005?'b'"Yes. We have faced harder times. Jews now have the capability of defending themselves by themselves."'b'And do you expect to be prime minister one year from today?'b'"Why only one year?"'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: safire@nytimes.com'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b"Steven Cohen is a former federal prosecutor who has become all but obsessed with a case in New York in which he believes two men are serving long prison sentences for a murder they didn't commit."b'A former New York City detective, Robert Addolorato, actually seems tormented by the case. He also believes the prisoners are innocent.'b'Neither of these men are soft on crime. But they insist that in this particular case, the authorities fouled up. Mr. Cohen was adamant. "They\'ve got the wrong guys locked up for this murder," he said.'b"In the early morning hours of Nov. 23, 1990, two bouncers were shot at the old Palladium nightclub on East 14th Street in Manhattan. One of the bouncers died. A couple of hapless young guys, David Lemus and Olmado Hidalgo, who most likely did not know one another, who didn't even speak the same language (one spoke only English and the other only Spanish), and who insisted they were not at the club when the shooting occurred, were arrested, tried, convicted and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison."b'The arrests had not been made immediately. Mr. Lemus was picked up nearly two months after the shooting, and Mr. Hidalgo nearly a year after. Prosecutors told a jury that the two men had gotten into an altercation with the bouncers, and had shot them after a "friend" of the defendants, Jose Figueroa, had unsuccessfully tried to mediate the dispute.'b'Mr. Cohen and Detective Addolorato had no particular interest in the Palladium matter. But in the course of their own investigation of a drug and extortion gang they essentially "solved" the Palladium case. (Mr. Lemus and Mr. Hidalgo were already in prison.) A gang member named Joey Pillot admitted that he and a buddy named Thomas Morales had been responsible for the murder, that Mr. Morales was the actual shooter, and that neither Mr. Lemus nor Mr. Hidalgo was involved.'b'A wealth of evidence has since been marshaled to support that account. Several witnesses have bolstered or corroborated Mr. Pillot\'s version of the shooting. The prosecution\'s theory about what happened that night suffered a severe blow when it was learned that Mr. Figueroa, the "friend" who was supposed to have been acting as a mediator, was nowhere near the Palladium when the shooting occurred. He was in prison.'b'A man who resembled Mr. Figueroa, Richard Feliciano, was at the scene. According to court papers filed by defense lawyers, Mr. Feliciano "has indicated that he was, in fact, the mediator, that he witnessed the shooting and that Morales, and not Mr. Lemus and Mr. Hidalgo, shot the bouncers."'b'Lawyers for Mr. Lemus and Mr. Hidalgo have pressed hard for a new trial, but have not been successful. Another appeal hearing will be held later this month.'b"The New York Times and other news outlets have run stories raising serious questions about the case and detailing new evidence that has emerged, including Joey Pillot's confession. The forewoman of the jury that convicted Mr. Lemus and Mr. Hidalgo has also reviewed the latest evidence. She now believes the two men were innocent. But prosecutors in the Manhattan district attorney's office continue to fight all efforts to have the convictions overturned."b'In an article that appeared in July 2000, Jane Fritsch and David Rohde of The Times wrote: "It is difficult to overturn a conviction in New York, even in the face of powerful new evidence. Trial judges and state appeals courts have always been reluctant to reverse a jury\'s verdict, and in 1996, Congress sharply limited the rights of defendants to take their appeals to federal court."'b'While officials in the D.A.\'s office continue to insist that Mr. Lemus and Mr. Hidalgo are guilty, there seems to be at least a little give in the foundation of their certainty. I talked about the case last week with James Kindler, the chief assistant district attorney. He said at one point, "We think that at least Morales -- there\'s been some evidence that we had that Morales may have been involved, yes."'b'"In the shooting?" I said.'b'"In the shooting."'b'That did not mean, said Mr. Kindler, that Mr. Lemus and Mr. Hidalgo were innocent. He said they could all have been involved.'b"I then asked if the D.A.'s office had any evidence that linked Mr. Morales even remotely to the two men imprisoned for the murder."b'"I believe not," said Mr. Kindler.  Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"Correction:  January 25, 2006, Wednesday  An article on Oct. 20 about the reversal of David Lemus's conviction in the 1990 killing of a bouncer at the Palladium nightclub in Manhattan misspelled the given name of his co-defendant, who had also been cleared. (The error, which is in the indictment, also appeared in more than a dozen articles on the case from 2000 to 2005.) He is Olmedo Hidalgo, not Olmado. An article on Aug. 20 about the dismissal of charges against Mr. Hidalgo misstated the timing of a judge's reversal of his conviction. That took place on July 29, not on Aug. 19. These errors were discovered last week during research for an article on later developments."b"The people who hustled America into a tax cut to eliminate an imaginary budget surplus and a war to eliminate imaginary weapons are now trying another bum's rush. If they succeed, we will do nothing about the real fiscal threat and will instead dismantle Social Security, a program that is in much better financial shape than the rest of the federal government."b"In the next few weeks, I'll explain why privatization will fatally undermine Social Security, and suggest steps to strengthen the program. I'll also talk about the much more urgent fiscal problems the administration hopes you won't notice while it scares you about Social Security."b"Today let's focus on one piece of those scare tactics: the claim that Social Security faces an imminent crisis."b'That claim is simply false. Yet much of the press has reported the falsehood as a fact. For example, The Washington Post recently described 2018, when benefit payments are projected to exceed payroll tax revenues, as a "day of reckoning."'b"Here's the truth: by law, Social Security has a budget independent of the rest of the U.S. government. That budget is currently running a surplus, thanks to an increase in the payroll tax two decades ago. As a result, Social Security has a large and growing trust fund."b'When benefit payments start to exceed payroll tax revenues, Social Security will be able to draw on that trust fund. And the trust fund will last for a long time: until 2042, says the Social Security Administration; until 2052, says the Congressional Budget Office; quite possibly forever, say many economists, who point out that these projections assume that the economy will grow much more slowly in the future than it has in the past.'b'So where\'s the imminent crisis? Privatizers say the trust fund doesn\'t count because it\'s invested in U.S. government bonds, which are "meaningless i.o.u.\'s." Readers who want a long-form debunking of this sophistry can read my recent article in the online journal The Economists\' Voice (www.bepress.com/ev).'b"The short version is that the bonds in the Social Security trust fund are obligations of the federal government's general fund, the budget outside Social Security. They have the same status as U.S. bonds owned by Japanese pension funds and the government of China. The general fund is legally obliged to pay the interest and principal on those bonds, and Social Security is legally obliged to pay full benefits as long as there is money in the trust fund."b"There are only two things that could endanger Social Security's ability to pay benefits before the trust fund runs out. One would be a fiscal crisis that led the U.S. to default on all its debts. The other would be legislation specifically repudiating the general fund's debts to retirees."b"That is, we can't have a Social Security crisis without a general fiscal crisis -- unless Congress declares that debts to foreign bondholders must be honored, but that promises to older Americans, who have spent most of their working lives paying extra payroll taxes to build up the trust fund, don't count."b"Politically, that seems far-fetched. A general fiscal crisis, on the other hand, is a real possibility -- but not because of Social Security. In fact, the Bush administration's scaremongering over Social Security is in large part an effort to distract the public from the real fiscal danger."b"There are two serious threats to the federal government's solvency over the next couple of decades. One is the fact that the general fund has already plunged deeply into deficit, largely because of President Bush's unprecedented insistence on cutting taxes in the face of a war. The other is the rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid."b"As a budget concern, Social Security isn't remotely in the same league. The long-term cost of the Bush tax cuts is five times the budget office's estimate of Social Security's deficit over the next 75 years. The botched prescription drug bill passed in 2003 does more, all by itself, to increase the long-run budget deficit than the projected rise in Social Security expenses."b"That doesn't mean nothing should be done to improve Social Security's finances. But privatization is a fake solution to a fake crisis. In future articles on this subject I'll explain why, and also outline a real plan to strengthen Social Security."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'The greatest outpouring of disaster relief on record has been promised for the victims of the worst natural disaster of our time, a stupendous display of good will and empathy for the huge suffering and loss in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, India, Somalia and the other devastated countries. Now, how does the world get it to those who need it?'b"President Bush, who embarrassed Americans with his initial offer of a piddling $15 million, should be commended for increasing the government's pledge to $350 million. Japan quickly followed suit, raising its promised amount to $500 million from $30 million. And Norway, just yesterday, announced that it is adding $160 million to its initial pledge, for a total of about $180 million, a whopping amount from a country with a gross domestic product figure that's half the size of New Jersey's."b'The foremost challenge now is to ensure that the money pledged in the glow of the media spotlight gets to the people who need it. That is the job of the United Nations, which has a chance to redeem itself after the oil-for-food scandal. It must make sure that the money is not diverted into the hands of corrupt government officials or used as a political weapon by armies waging counterinsurgency campaigns in some of the most stricken areas.'b'Right now in Indonesia, cartons of food, water and medical supplies are stacking up in airports, not getting to the villages that were hit the hardest. Part of the problem is the Indonesian military. Complaints have already arisen about soldiers siphoning off supplies for their relatives and friends. But Indonesian government officials bear some blame. Take, for example, the remarkably callous dismissal of reports of hungry families in leveled towns made by Alwi Shihab, the country\'s senior disaster response coordinator: "I can guarantee you there is no starvation, except for me, because I didn\'t have lunch today." This is hardly the face the Indonesian government should want to present to a traumatized population.'b"Furthermore, the money must be sent, not just pledged. The Bush administration is notorious for promising wonderful pots of money when the cameras are rolling -- the Monterey summit meeting on poverty nearly three years ago comes to mind -- and then failing to follow through once the attention fades. Victims of the earthquake in Bam, Iran, a year ago are still living in tents because aid, including American aid, has fallen short. In 2002 in Monterey, Mr. Bush announced a Millennium Challenge Account to give African nations development assistance of up to $5 billion a year. We're still waiting for the account to actually hand out so much as a dollar."b"Of more lasting importance than getting money to the tsunami victims is working to ensure that when the next disaster hits, fewer are killed. That can happen only if America and other rich countries spend more on development aid, not just disaster relief. Emergency aid is a Band-Aid; development aid is a vaccine. Rich countries like America and the European nations have the firm foundations necessary to help fight nature's wrath, including early warning systems and sound housing structures. Last fall, severe storms hit Haiti and Florida. Haiti lost around 2,000 lives; Florida lost about 100."b'The horrific casualties inflicted by the tsunamis are the face of poverty today. So many lives could have been spared with basic things like an emergency response system or local shelters built on high ground.'b"The aid to the tsunami victims must not come out of the same pot used for development aid. It's clear that in the yearly lottery of disaster aid, the tsunami survivors will get the most. But that doesn't mean that the eight million people who die every year from preventable diseases like malaria should end up losers -- again."b"Editorial   Correction:  January 27, 2005, Thursday  An editorial on Jan. 4 incorrectly described the American role in helping victims of the earthquake in Bam, Iran. The United States delivered on its pledge within days. It was not among the countries that failed to meet their commitments. An editorial on Jan. 21 about a proposal to make Jacques Chirac a senator after he finishes his term as French president incorrectly said that legislation doing so had been introduced. The bill's author said he had decided to do further work after it came under public criticism."b"Over the past 50 years, we've been having a big debate over two rival economic systems. Conservatives have tended to favor the American model, with smaller government and lower taxes, but less social support. Liberals have supported programs that lead to the European model, with bigger government, more generous support and less inequality."b'I wonder if that debate is about to change. In the next few decades both models are going to confront a big test: aging populations. The U.S. model is going to be challenged by this problem, but the European model is flat-out unsustainable.'b'Populations in the U.S. and Europe are both aging, but Europe is aging faster. According to the O.E.C.D., the dependency ratio -- defined as the number of people over 65 as a percentage of the number of people 20 to 64 years old -- will rise to 37 percent from 22 percent in the United States by 2050. But it will go up to 52 percent from 26 percent in the European Union.'b"In addition, European public pensions are more generous and retirees are more reliant on them. To sustain these programs, European government spending will have to rise. According to the European Commission, demographic trends will push public spending up by five to eight percentage points of G.D.P. in the E.U.'s 15 richest members. In Germany, public spending on pensions will rise from an already huge level, 10.3 percent of G.D.P., to 15.4 percent by 2040. And that's after recent benefit cuts."b"To pay for all of this, taxes will rise and public debt will increase. A Standard &amp; Poor's survey predicts that France and Germany could see their public debt grow to more than 200 percent of G.D.P. by 2050."b'Europe may find itself locked into a vicious circle: an aging population means more public spending, which means higher taxes, which means lower growth, which means higher unemployment, which means more public spending, which means more taxes and even lower growth.'b'The former Dutch prime minister, Wim Kok, recently released a scathing report that found that "the pure impact of aging populations will be to reduce the potential growth rate of the E.U. from the present rate, of 2 percent to 2.25 percent, to around 1.25 percent by 2040."'b"Already, high European taxes make the European model look obsolete. European and U.S. workers are about equally productive per hour worked. But Americans work 50 percent more than Germans, French and Italians. In the 1970's, Western Europeans actually worked more than Americans. But as taxes rose and incentives to work diminished, Europeans cut back their hours or dropped out of the labor force."b'Some economists, like the Nobel laureate Edward Prescott, believe higher tax rates explain the drop in work. Others believe cultural preferences also played a big role. Either way, high taxes have made Europe less productive just as it needs high output to support its retirees.'b"Partly as a result, European economies have underperformed for a generation now. As Olaf Gersemann has pointed out, the U.S. economy has enjoyed an annual real growth rate of 2.9 percent over the past 25 years. That's 55 percent more than western Germany, 48 percent more than France and 39 percent more than the E.U. as a whole. Back in the 1970's, European standards of living were catching up to U.S. standards. Now American G.D.P. per capita is about 30 percent higher than Europe's and the gap, if anything, is getting wider."b"Which brings us to the current moment. In Europe, everybody is aware of the problem, but the remedies are so bad that most countries avoid them. Meanwhile, we in the United States are embarking on our own debate over the future of Social Security. Many liberals are claiming that we don't need to fundamentally revamp our system because there is no crisis. To the extent that's true, it is because we have not been taking their advice for the past 50 years."b'We have stuck with a low-tax, high-growth economic model. This gives us the resources and the flexibility to deal with the problems caused by an aging population without having to face, at least for now, the horrific choices that confront our friends across the Atlantic.'b'The question is: Will we leave our children a system as flexible, dynamic and productive as the one that was, fortunately, left to us? Or, by doing nothing, will we succumb to the same ineluctable pressures that now afflict Europe, and find that we are immobilized at the exact moment China and India are passing us by?'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b'If a stockbroker was "earning" a free trip to Hawaii for selling you a certain stock, wouldn\'t you want to know? Good luck in trying to find out.'b'Since 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission has exempted brokers from rules that require registered investment advisers to act in their clients\' best interests and to disclose fully their qualifications, disciplinary histories and conflicts of interest. The rationale is the idea that brokers are primarily salespeople, not advisers, and that any advice they give must be "solely incidental" to making a sale. That\'s odd, given that brokerage firms increasingly call their brokers "consultants" or "wealth managers" and pay them fees for an array of services, not just commissions on sales.'b'Fed up with the double standard, the trade organization for financial planners sued the S.E.C. last year. The commission asked the court for more time, promising to resolve the matter by the end of 2004. In December, the agency acted -- by deferring a decision until April 15, 2005. In the meantime, it will solicit public comments focused mainly on how to define "solely incidental." The definition is important because the S.E.C. clearly wants to continue to exempt brokers on that basis.'b'We have some comments to offer. If brokers are marketed by any name other than "stockbroker," or if they earn fees in addition to, or in place of, commissions, it\'s safe for the S.E.C. to assume -- as the public undoubtedly does -- that they\'re investment advisers. Accordingly, they should follow the same rules that govern registered investment advisers. Trying to establish a test based on what is or is not "solely incidental" to a stock sale is a joke -- on investors.'b"It's the S.E.C.'s job to protect individual investors, not to reassure the securities industry that its brokers are safe from regulatory standards."b''b'Correction Appended'b''b"Missoula, Mont. - THOSE whose knowledge of wild horses comes from coffee-table books and animal-rights propaganda tend to embrace the mythology of the wild horse and ignore the reality. The myth is pretty, like artwork: a proud stallion and his mares and their adorable foals gallop through a meadow, mountains in the background, manes and tails streaming. There's a reason people who see that take a photograph or paint a picture."b"But here's some artwork from the summer of 2003: A cloud hangs over the Nevada landscape, caused by 500 half-starved horses pounding the high desert to powder, looking for food, stamping any remaining waterholes into dust. The foals are long dead, left behind as they weakened. Cowboys under contract with the Bureau of Land Management set out to gather the horses and move them, but a phone call redirects them to a worse situation in another area."b"The overpopulation of wild horses is a serious problem in the West, with herds growing exponentially until they eat themselves out of luck. The land can't support an infinite number of wild horses -- which, by the way, are inbred feral descendants of imported domestic horses, hardly more native to the prairie than the cattle their ancestors were trained to herd."b"Still, possibly because of our love for the domestic horse, its wild cousins have become cultural icons, symbols of freedom. It's practically un-American to talk about killing them, so we've assumed a sort of willful blindness to both the reality of the problem and its solutions. Animal-advocacy groups rise in indignation over every proposal to reduce the number of wild horses, including sterilization programs, instead demanding a Western version of the miracle of loaves and fishes."b'Some 30 years ago, the Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act provided the land management bureau with two options for horses removed from public lands because of overcrowding: adoption or "humane and cost-efficient" destruction. Ignoring the second option, the bureau has been warehousing 16,000 horses, unlikely to be adopted but ostensibly waiting for new homes, in overcrowded, unsanitary and expensive feedlots. An additional 37,000 horses and burros overgraze land meant to sustain 27,000.'b"To get the land management bureau to come to grips with the problem, Senator Conrad Burns, Republican of Montana, added a provision to a spending bill last year that allows certain horses to be auctioned off to the highest bidder, which may be a slaughterhouse. Senator Burns's amendment, signed last month by President Bush, may actually end up rescuing the wild horses he is accused of murdering. At its worst, this measure will sacrifice the unadoptable few to the benefit of all. At its best, it will prod us, as a nation, to take that first difficult step toward a sustainable program to manage wild horses."b"Adoption is a partial solution, but it's not the whole answer. Adoptions don't keep up with herd growth, for one thing. And not all horses are created equal, for another. People adopt beautiful, young horses. The old, plain and ugly are doomed from the outset. In addition, virtually anyone with $125 can adopt a wild horse, but not everyone has the knowledge and perseverance to tame it, or even, as it turns out, to catch it after it's been let out to graze in its new home."b"Horse trainers like Merle Edsall see the worst of the adoption cases when they're called to recapture adult horses whose heads have grown around halters put on them as colts. Too many, he says, spend their days in small pens because their owners, unwilling to put them down, are at a loss for what to do with them. His solution is the Sonora Wild Horse Repatriation Project, which seeks to establish a sanctuary in Mexico to sustain 10,000 horses in a natural environment. But projects like this are howled down by animal-rights groups that complain about sterilization and other issues while ignoring the good such a project would bring."b'People who truly love horses need to do their own research. We need places that will accept returned adoptees and horses that no one wants to adopt. The Sonora project, and several other sanctuary plans like it, would provide a place for wild horses to live out their lives in freedom.'b'Game are controlled through hunting and predation; cattle graze under strict regulations. Only the wild horse is allowed to multiply unchecked, and with catastrophic results. Sanctuaries would keep healthy horses out of costly, unsanitary feedlots, while sending older, unadoptable horses to slaughter would give their herds a better chance at survival. A side effect would be the rejuvenation of our depleted public lands to the benefit of all species. Americans have a chance now to become part of a sustainable solution before we stand guilty of loving our wild horses to death.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Judy Blunt, a professor of creative writing at the University of Missouri, is the author of "Breaking Clean."'b'Correction:  January 5, 2005, Wednesday  An Op-Ed article yesterday about wild horses in the West misstated the affiliation of the author, Judy Blunt. She is a professor at the University of Montana, not Missouri.'b'To the editor:'b'Re "Prescription for Confusion" (editorial, Dec. 28):'b'While I agree that doctors, along with the drug companies and the Food and Drug Administration, should take responsibility for the COX-2 fiasco, the one group that really needs to wake up and become more responsible is us, the consumers.'b'We need to understand that drugs can also harm and that medicine, especially painkillers, must be used judiciously.'b'Because so many powerful drugs are available over the counter, perhaps the time has come to provide education through our schools about the responsible use of medicine in the way we provide sex education. Similarly, our pharmacists need to become more active in educating consumers, especially the elderly, about the benefits and risks of various medications.'b'Madan M. Kwatra  Durham, N.C., Dec. 29, 2004'b'Fighting thyroid cancer, Chief Justice William Rehnquist used the occasion last week of his 19th, and potentially final, report on the state of the federal courts to extend his proud record of defending the independence of the federal judiciary against intrusive attacks by politicians.'b'Without naming names, Chief Justice Rehnquist spoke of a troubling "new turn" in recent years that has seen some conservative Republicans in Congress cross the line from ordinary criticism of judicial decisions they do not like to trying to intimidate individual judges. In the process, they show disrespect to the constitutional separation of powers and threaten the essential role of an independent judiciary in protecting American rights.'b'Without singling out the House majority leader Tom DeLay and others, Chief Justice Rehnquist expressed appropriate concern over recent calls by some members of the last Congress for laws limiting the jurisdiction of federal courts to decide constitutional challenges on matters like the use of "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance. He was also duly critical of threats to impeach so-called "activist" judges for their interpretations of the Constitution.'b'"A judge\'s judicial acts may not serve as a basis for impeachment," the chief justice, author of a 1992 book on this theme, stated in a timely reminder to the reconvening Congress. "Any other rule would destroy judicial independence. Instead of trying to apply the law fairly, regardless of public opinion, judges would be concerned about inflaming any group that might be able to muster the votes in Congress to impeach and convict them."'b"This is a message that Chief Justice Rehnquist, much to his credit, has delivered time and again as head of the nation's court system, even at the risk of offending fellow conservatives. But given current political tensions over the future direction of the federal courts, it has special resonance right now."b'ALTHOUGH the Bush administration has now pledged $350 million for the Asian tsunami catastrophe, claims that America is "stingy" are still in the air. The criticism stems from the much-touted fact that our government\'s foreign aid ranks last among developed countries as a percentage of gross national income.'b'This rankles, as Americans tend to think of themselves as a generous people. How can we, the richest nation in the world, not be more caring? The answer is simple: we actually are.'b'For one thing, our government gives the highest absolute amount in foreign aid -- more than $16 billion in 2003. And this does not include the cost of our global military presence, which helps provide the stability needed for economic growth, or the billions spent on developing medicines that save millions of lives in poorer nations.'b'Most important, however, Americans generally help people abroad the same way they help people at home: through private charities, religious organizations, foundations, corporations, universities and money sent to relatives. In 2000, all this came to more than $35 billion, more than three times what the government gave. And this does did not include giving by local churches or by overseas affiliates of American corporations.'b"The fact is, foreign aid is being privatized. A study by the Foundation Center found that international giving by foundations grew by 79 percent 1998 from 2002, while overall giving grew by only 42 percent. Private giving is usually faster, nimbler and more directly accountable than government aid. Overhead costs are lower, and it can better avoid interference by corrupt officials. It's no surprise that some of the first groups on the scene in Asia were private; on the day of the earthquake, CARE bought food for more than 8,000 Sri Lankans along with purification supplies and sleeping mats for 500 families."b"The Europeans assist the needy abroad as they do the needy at home, primarily through government programs. This makes them appear generous: Norway ranks first in allocating 0.92 percent of its gross national income to foreign aid. But Norway's $2 billion of yearly aid is less than what American companies alone give."b'So rather than talking about our stinginess, the Europeans and the United Nations should look to increase the role of private donors. After all, the victims of a tsunami do not care whether the food, medicine and clean water come from a government or an independent charity.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Carol Adelman, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, is a former assistant administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.'b"The fine print in President Bush's No Child Left Behind Act is slowly dawning on the parents of high school students across the country as the war in Iraq drags on: military recruiters can blitz youngsters with uninvited phone calls to their homes and on-campus pitches replete with video war games. This is all possible under a little-noted part of the law that requires schools to provide the names, addresses (campus addresses, too) and phone numbers of students or risk losing federal aid. The law provides an option to block the hard-sell recruitment -- but only if parents demand in writing that the school deny this information to the military."b'Hard-pressed recruiters have stepped up the sales pitch to meet wartime manpower shortages. One sergeant filmed by the PBS "NewsHour" recently sounded like a salesman from David Mamet\'s "Glengarry Glen Ross" as he exhorted a campus group: "I mean, where else can you get paid to jump out of airplanes, shoot cool guns, blow stuff up and travel, seeing all kinds of different countries?"'b'The Pentagon insists that it enjoys the same entree to high school students as college and corporate recruiters. But clearly, No Child Left Behind has given the military a thumb on the scale with the threat of lost money. Some students on the cusp of adulthood describe the recruiters as merely offering another option in life; others complain of outright pestering.'b"Recruiters have learned to focus on the most promising markets -- typically lower-middle-class schools. No one can complain of unfairness in a draft-free society where many have found fine careers in the military, with recruitment part of the process. But it is objectionable when the government tucks a decided advantage for its wartime armies' salesmanship into a law invoked in the name of children.   Editorial"b'Last week, the Bush administration put another spin on the twisted legal reasoning behind the brutalization of prisoners at military jails, apparently in hopes of smoothing the promotion of Alberto Gonzales, the White House counsel. Mr. Gonzales, who oversaw earlier memos condoning what amounts to torture and scoffed at the Geneva Conventions, is being rewarded with the job of attorney general.'b'But the document only underscored the poor choice Mr. Bush made when he decided to elevate a man so closely identified with the scandal of Abu Ghraib, the contempt for due process at Guant\xc3\xa1namo Bay and the seemingly unending revelations of the abuse of Afghan and Iraqi prisoners by American soldiers. Like Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, the other chief architect of these policies, Mr. Gonzales shamed the nation and endangered American soldiers who may be taken prisoner in the future by condoning the sort of atrocious acts the United States has always condemned.'b'The Senate Judiciary Committee will question Mr. Gonzales tomorrow, even though the White House has not released documents that are essential to a serious hearing. The committee has an obligation to demand these documents, and to compel Mr. Gonzales to account for administration policies, before giving him the top law-enforcement job.'b'After Sept. 11, 2001, with Americans intent on punishing those behind the terrorist attacks and preventing another calamity at home, the Bush administration had its lawyers review the legal status of Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners, with an eye to getting around the Geneva Conventions, other international accords and United States law on the treatment of prisoners.'b'Mr. Gonzales was the center of this effort. On Jan. 25, 2002, he sent Mr. Bush a letter assuring him that the war on terror "renders obsolete Geneva\'s strict limitations on questioning of enemy prisoners." That August, Mr. Gonzales got a legal opinion from Jay Bybee, then the assistant attorney general, arguing that the president could suspend the Geneva Conventions at will and that some forms of torture "may be justified." Mr. Rumsfeld\'s lawyers produced documents justifying the abuse of prisoners sent from Afghanistan to Guant\xc3\xa1namo Bay. Mr. Gonzales approved those memos or didn\'t object. We don\'t know which because the White House won\'t release the documents.'b"On Thursday, more than eight months after the rotten fruits of those legal briefs were shown to the world at Abu Ghraib, the Justice Department issued yet another legal opinion. This time it rejected Mr. Bybee's bizarre notion that the president could be given the legal go-ahead to authorize torture simply by defining the word so narrowly as to exclude almost anything short of mortal injury. We were glad to see that turnaround, although it was three years too late. Prisoners have already been systematically hurt, degraded, tortured and even killed. The nation's international reputation is deeply scarred."b'The new memo said that "torture is abhorrent," but it raised more questions than it answered, like this one: If Mr. Bybee\'s views were so obviously outlandish, why were they allowed to stand for so long?'b'And the new memo still goes beyond the limits of American values and international conventions. The administration now recognizes that the anti-torture accord forbids the deliberate use of severe physical or mental pain and suffering to compel a prisoner to divulge information or cooperate in some other way -- but it continues to draw fine lines about what that means.'b"For instance, the Geneva Conventions say that it is torture when a prisoner suffers mentally from the use of mind-altering drugs or the threat of imminent death. But the administration's lawyers have decided that temporary trauma doesn't count, and that mental suffering is real only if it lasts for years. More than once, American soldiers have taken an Iraqi teenager and compelled him to dig his grave, then forced him to kneel, put a gun to his head and pulled the trigger in a mock execution. Is that not torture unless he's still upset about it in five years?"b"Even if the new memo could somehow magically sweep away all these deeply troubling aspects of the Gonzales nomination, there are other big questions about his background. As White House counsel, he recently oversaw the feckless vetting of Bernard Kerik as the nominee for secretary of homeland security. He was a primary agent behind unacceptably restrictive secrecy policies, the proposed constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and the excessive authority to abuse civil liberties granted by the Patriot Act. In Texas, as Governor Bush's legal adviser, Mr. Gonzales wrote briefs that were notoriously sloppy in response to condemned prisoners' appeals for clemency."b'Republicans expect an easy confirmation, given their Senate majority. But at the very least, Mr. Gonzales should account for his actions. He should unequivocally renounce torture, without any fine-print haggling, as well as the other illegal treatment of prisoners in military jails. And he should explain how he will use his new job to clean up the mess he helped create.'b'WASHINGTON - IF President Bush truly wants a bipartisan agreement on Social Security reform, he should recognize that he can keep the system solvent, increase savings and promote his ownership agenda without dividing Washington by carving Social Security into private accounts.'b'The president can promote the individual ownership he wants and protect the guaranteed Social Security benefits Democrats insist on with a new universal 401(k) that offers all Americans a private retirement account in addition to Social Security, and uses government funds to match contributions made by moderate and lower-income workers.'b"A universal 401(k) would increase savings far more than partly privatizing Social Security. Privatization that simply allocates part of the current 12.4 percent Social Security payroll tax for employees to invest in private accounts does nothing to increase national savings: it's like taking $1,000 a year from your parent's 401(k) and putting it in your own individual retirement account. Allowing people to invest some of their Social Security payroll taxes in the market simply adds risk to the one risk-free leg of the retirement stool. If instead people could invest in universal 401(k) accounts -- in addition to Social Security -- that provided new incentives to those families having the hardest time putting money away, America would actually leverage new savings, not just shift existing savings around."b"Such accounts would also help remedy America's upside-down tax incentives for retirement savings. Taxpayers in the highest income bracket, 35 percent, not only are more likely to get a matching contribution for their savings from a 401(k) at work, but also get to deduct 35 cents from their taxes for each dollar saved in their 401(k). Meanwhile, most working families in the 15 percent bracket do not get matching contributions from an employer-sponsored pension -- and when they do save they get only a 15-cent deduction for each dollar."b"A universal 401(k) would give the greatest matching tax incentives to those who need the most help saving, with a dollar-for-dollar match by the government for initial contributions by moderate-income workers and even more for the working poor. A universal 401(k) could further promote savings if financed in a fiscally responsible manner -- say, by raising the estate-tax exemption to $5 million per couple from today's $3 million, but avoiding the outright repeal scheduled under current law. For every wealthy estate that faced higher taxes, more than 5,000 Americans would get a tax cut to help them save and someday build an estate of their own."b"To win Democratic support for a Social Security fix, President Bush must also commit to mutual sacrifice. The administration's tax cuts already save the richest 1 percent of Americans nearly $100 billion a year, an amount that over time would keep Social Security solvent for 75 years. Before President Bush can ask Democrats to go along with any tax or benefit changes that affect average Americans, he needs to ask this most fortunate group to help bear the burden of reform."b'The president should propose a 3 percent surcharge on all income over $200,000 -- whether from earnings, dividends or capital gains -- and use the money to increase national savings now and help keep Social Security solvent. He could make the deal contingent on a bipartisan agreement to find equivalent savings to shore up Social Security through measured revenue and benefit changes.'b'This strategy would require real compromise. But if the president wants to strengthen savings, promote his "ownership society" and keep Social Security solvent, he could use these measures to light the way to the bipartisan agreement he needs.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Gene Sperling, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, was national economic adviser to President Bill Clinton from 1997 to 2001.'b'So is the U.S. "stingy" about helping poor countries?'b"That accusation by a U.N. official, in veiled form, provoked indignation here. After all, we're the most generous people on earth aren't we?"b"No, alas, we're not. And the tsunamis illustrate the problem: When grieving victims intrude onto our TV screens, we dig into our pockets and provide the massive, heartwarming response that we're now displaying in Asia; the rest of the time, we're tightwads who turn away as people die in far greater numbers."b"The 150,000 or so tsunami fatalities are well within the margin of error for estimates of the number of deaths every year from malaria. Probably two million people die annually of malaria, most of them children and most in Africa, or maybe it's three million -- we don't even know."b'But the bottom line is that this month and every month, more people will die of malaria (165,000 or more) and AIDS (240,000) than died in the tsunamis, and almost as many will die because of diarrhea ( 140,000).'b"And that's where we're stingy."b'Americans give 15 cents per day per person in official development assistance to poor countries. The average American spends four times that on soft drinks daily.'b'In 2003, the latest year for which figures are available, we increased such assistance by one-fifth, for President Bush has actually been much better about helping poor countries than President Clinton was. But as a share of our economy, our contribution still left us ranked dead last among 22 top donor countries.'b'We gave 15 cents for every $100 of national income to poor countries. Denmark gave 84 cents, the Netherlands gave 80 cents, Belgium gave 60 cents, France gave 41 cents, and Greece gave 21 cents (that was the lowest share, beside our own).'b'It is sometimes said that Americans make up for low official aid with private charitable gifts. Nope. By O.E.C.D. calculations, private donations add 6 cents a day to the official U.S. figure -- which means we still give only 21 cents a day per person.'b"One reason for American stinginess, I think, is a sense that foreign aid is money down a rathole. True, plenty has been wasted. But there's also growing evidence of what works and is cost-effective -- such as health programs and girls' schooling."b"One of the most unforgettable people I've met is Nhem Yen, a Cambodian grandmother whose daughter had just died of malaria, leaving two small children. So Nhem Yen was looking after her four children and two grandchildren, and she could afford only one mosquito net to protect them from malarial mosquitoes. Each night, she had to choose which of the six children would sleep under the net."b"Do we really think that paying $5 for a mosquito net to keep Nhem Yen's children alive would be money down a rathole?"b"When I contracted the most lethal form of malaria, in Congo, I was easily cured because I could afford the best medicines. But to save money, African children are given medicines that cost only 5 cents a dose but aren't very effective; the medicine that would actually save their lives is unaffordable, at $1 a dose. Do we really think $1 a dose for medicine to save a child is money down a rathole?"b'Jeffrey Sachs, the Columbia University economist, estimates that spending $2 billion to $3 billion on malaria might save more than one million lives a year. "This is probably the best bargain on the planet," he said.'b'The outpouring of U.S. aid, private and public, for tsunami victims is wonderful. But, frankly, the affected nations will get all the money they can absorb for the moment, and Thailand, Indonesia and Sri Lanka are far from the worst off in the world.'b'"The really big money can be better and more usefully absorbed by developing good health and education programs in the poorest countries," noted Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development. "But that\'s not as visible or heroic."'b'With America\'s image tarnished around the world, one of the most effective steps Mr. Bush could take to revive it would be to lead a global effort to confront an ongoing challenge like malaria. That would also give Mr. Bush more credibility by suggesting that the "culture of life" he talks about embraces not just fetuses, but also African children crying from hunger.'b'The best response to accusations of stinginess is not to be defensive, but to be generous. And the measure of generosity is not what you offer when the spotlight is upon you, but what you do when the spotlight moves on.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b'Congressional Republicans are actually trying to claim the side of the angels in their forced retreat from defending the ethical lapses of the majority leader Tom DeLay. "I feel like we have just taken a shower," one G.O.P. lawmaker said. Not hardly. While taking a half-step from Mr. DeLay\'s more embarrassing machinations, the Republican majority made sure to strike a potentially lethal blow to the enfeebled House ethics process.'b'A rules change engineered by the leadership means that corruption complaints against lawmakers will automatically expire if the evenly divided ethics committee finds itself in a 5-to-5 party-line standoff. As hobbled as the old system was, a standoff at least meant that the complaint went to a subcommittee for investigation. That produced three warnings for Mr. DeLay last year.'b"Speaker Dennis Hastert is also reported to be intent on purging the current chairman, Joel Hefley, a Colorado Republican who shocked his party by suddenly taking the job seriously. Mr. Hefley dared to sign off on the three admonishments of Mr. DeLay for cutting ethical corners by buttering up lobbyists, arm-twisting for floor votes and siccing federal agents on the Democrats who fled his gerrymandering intrusion into the Texas Statehouse. Hardly a career firebrand, Mr. Hefley, if he is to go, should be replaced by someone truly dedicated to rebuilding the House's tattered ethical reputation."b"An unbowed Mr. DeLay was able to rally the G.O.P. troops in November for a shameless rules change that would have meant he wouldn't have to step aside as leader should he be indicted in a Texas grand jury inquiry into his fund-raising activities. But even Mr. DeLay had to endorse the scrapping of this shield as he faced growing resistance this week from Republicans concerned that his ethical arrogance had become a defining issue for the Democrats."b"Still, the Republicans' belated realization that they needed to put limits on Mr. DeLay's demands for ethical sanctuary would have seemed more sincere if they'd done without the sleight of hand that makes a greater mockery of the ethics process."b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'SWARTHMORE, Pa. - THERE are three arguments being made in favor of privatizing part of Social Security. First, the Social Security Trust Fund needs money and privatization will, in the long run, increase the amount of money available to retirees. Second, privatization will give people choice, and choice is good. And third, "it\'s your money," and you ought to be able to do with it as you wish.'b'Each of these arguments is dubious, or disingenuous, or both.'b'Though experts differ on the urgency and the severity of the problem, most everyone agrees that the trust fund will eventually run out of money unless we do something. Two obvious and painful things we can do are decrease benefits or increase payroll taxes. Privatization, it is argued, solves the problem without the pain. Equity investments return about twice as much, historically, as Treasury bills. So by allowing people to put some of their payroll taxes into equity investments, we will increase the value of that part of their retirement account so we can then decrease the benefits paid out by the standard Social Security program and still leave retirees better off.'b"There are several problems with this argument, however. For starters, there is no guarantee that equities will return more than Treasury bills. One of the reasons that equities have a higher rate of return than other types of investments is that investors have to be compensated for taking risks. Perhaps equities will outperform Treasury bills in the long term but that doesn't mean that they will be outperforming Treasury bills at the specific moment you retire."b"For example, a person who retired in 2000 after a lifetime of investing half in stocks and half in bonds would have had 50 percent more in his account than a person making the same investments who retired in 2003. A difference like this could mean that the lucky retiree can afford both food and medicine while the unlucky one must choose between them. The risk inherent in equity investments is unavoidable unless you can leave the investment alone indefinitely, which, of course, most retirees can't do."b"What's more, the administrative costs of keeping track of these private accounts, according to President Bush's Commission to Strengthen Social Security, will be 10 to 30 times the cost of administering the current system, eating up almost all of the hypothetical gains that equity investments could provide."b'Finally, even if we grant the advantages of putting trust fund money into equities, this is something that the government could do without privatizing anything by doing the investing itself. The government as investor can ride out risks better than any individual investor, and administrative costs would be vastly reduced. Only brokerage houses would suffer -- from lost commissions. Thus investing in equities, which might be a good idea, is logically independent of privatization, which is a bad one. The Bush administration is deliberately conflating them.'b'This brings us to the second argument in favor of privatizing Social Security: giving people options makes them better off. There is now accumulating evidence that choice isn\'t always good. Whether people are choosing jam in a grocery store, essay topics in a college class, or even potential partners in an evening of "speed dating," the more options they have, the less likely they are to make a choice. In other words, increasing options induces people to opt out of choosing altogether, and this comes into play when people decide how to invest their money for retirement.'b'A study by Sheena Iyengar, a psychologist, and Wei Jiang, an economist, has shown that when employers increase the number of funds available to employees for voluntary 401(k) investments, the rate of participation goes down by 2 percent for every 10 funds offered. And this is true even when participating employees get free money -- matching money -- from employers.'b"So whereas there is no denying that choice is sometimes good, a case must be made for the specific benefits of choice in each particular context, rather than just assuming that the more choice people have, the better off they are. The appropriately abysmal early public response to the administration's Medicare prescription drug choice plan provides ample reason to suspect that many people will not regard being able to choose their Social Security investment instruments as a blessing."b'This brings me to the final defense of privatization: the payroll taxes you pay are your money, and you ought to be able to do what you like with your money. This, I suspect, is the real justification behind the move to privatize, and it is the worst reason of all. The payroll tax is not "your" money; it\'s our money. Social Security was created as an insurance scheme, not a pension scheme. It was meant to provide a safety net, to protect the unlucky from immiseration in old age. The benefits we get are not payouts from accounts in which we have accumulated our own private stash. What we get is largely determined by what we earned, but we keep getting it even after we\'ve taken out every penny we put in. And if we happen to die early, someone else reaps the benefits of our contributions.'b'The Bush administration should be honest with the American people and ask us if we want to do away with Social Security, without pretending that privatization will solve the problem of financing the trust fund without pain. I suspect that the American people would reject this effort to transform their "old-age insurance" into another opportunity to roll the dice in the investment casino.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Barry Schwartz, a professor of psychology at Swarthmore College, is the author of "The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less."'b'Correction:  January 11, 2005, Tuesday  An Op-Ed article on Wednesday about privatizing Social Security misstated the source for the estimate of the administrative costs of keeping track of private investment accounts. It should not have been attributed to the report of the Commission to Strengthen Social Security, but to Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, who calculated it based on figures in that report and elsewhere.'b"A lot could go wrong with Iraq's elections on Jan. 30. But one fear that seems misplaced is that the two main Iraqi Shiite parties, which are likely to be the biggest winners, would take orders from Iran's radical Shiite ayatollahs, imposing pro-Iranian policies on Baghdad or establishing an Iraqi Shiite theocracy."b"It's true that both of these parties, the Dawa Islamic Party and the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq (known as Sciri), have strong historical and personal links with Iran and its leadership. But their politics, aspirations and main constituencies are now firmly rooted in Iraq. If these parties come to power as part of a national Iraqi government, with broad support from all major population groups, their independence from Iran seems assured. That independence will be harder to preserve if the January vote splits Iraq between a self-governing but weak Shiite and Kurdish zone and a Sunni region with continuing, violent insurrection."b'Sciri and Dawa are the dominant parties of the United Iraqi Alliance, a coalition of mainly Shiite parties running as a joint slate in the January election. Even with high voter turnout in Sunni areas, these parties are expected to do well because 60 percent of Iraqis are Shiites. With reduced Sunni participation, they are likely to do even better.'b"Both parties fell under strong Iranian influence when Saddam Hussein was ruthlessly persecuting Iraq's Shiite majority and assassinating its main political and religious leaders. Their leaders received sanctuary and money from Iran. But many of the new constituents they are courting have bitter memories of Iran, dating to the suffering of the Iran-Iraq war. And Iran's corrupt, autocratic and economically floundering clerical dictatorship is not very popular in Iran right now, let alone Iraq. Iraq's leading Shiite ayatollah, Ali al-Sistani, has repeatedly rejected the Iranian political model."b"The real threat looming over the January elections comes from the continuing alienation of most of Iraq's Sunni minority. This extends well beyond the terrorists trying to intimidate election workers or the die-hards unable to accept majority rule. The military actions in Falluja and Mosul this fall seem to have deepened it, and it now embraces almost the entire Sunni community. The January election can begin to address this problem only if large portions of the Sunni population accept its results. Otherwise, the gravest dangers facing Iraq after Jan. 30 will not come from Iran's plotting ayatollahs, but from Iraq's own disaffected Sunnis."b"WASHINGTON - A global coalition of the giving  bolstered by American military ships and choppers that are able to deliver needed relief to sick and starving tsunami victims -- rightly dominates the news. In Asia, the cataclysm's aftermath pulls even warring factions together."b'Not in the Middle East. Palestinians and Israelis must first resolve their internal battles before they can begin to make peace with each other.'b"In Gaza, the leading candidate to replace Yasir Arafat in Sunday's election, Mahmoud Abbas, known as Abu Mazen, has embraced the radical Arabs who want not peace but conquest. These terrorists are firing rockets and mortars at nearby Israeli civilians in the hopes of making Ariel Sharon's planned withdrawal of settlers appear to be a surrender to the warriors of Hamas."b'When Israeli defenders returned fire this week, Abu Mazen called all Arab casualties "martyrs who were killed today by the shells of the Zionist enemy." He hopes to win extremists\' votes by adopting their hate-filled rhetoric as well as Arafat\'s platform of a "right of return" of Arabs to overwhelm Israel.'b'Sharon hopes this is campaign oratory to increase the expected majority for Abu Mazen. But the Palestinian, by appeasing his fiercest faction of die-hards, is playing with fire. To reach a settlement, he will have to make compromises that these warring radicals totally reject -- which, if they refuse and rebel, would mean Palestinian civil war.'b"The Israeli internal split is not about the usual parliamentary politics. At the moment, Sharon's Likud-Labor majority needs a few religious-party votes that will be determined by a 95-year-old rabbi. If that is not obtained by the usual method (a U.S. metaphor of political pork is not applicable in this context), then Sharon will go to elections to demonstrate the will of the Israeli people."b'The split in Israel goes to the nature of the Jewish state. Ultras among the rabbinate talk of advising Israeli soldiers to refuse to obey orders to eject settlers who refuse relocation from Gaza.'b'Civil disobedience, with acceptance of its consequences in law, is legitimate in a democracy; military disobedience to legal orders is beyond the pale.'b'Were it not for the Israeli Defense Forces acting loyally under discipline, rabbis -- with the right to worship in synagogues and to dissent in the public square -- would be the first to be driven into the sea by the Arab extremists now being pandered to by Abu Mazen.'b'If there is to be a settlement, both Arabs and Jews must assert majority rule, which means that soldiers follow the orders of elected officials. I have no doubt that Arik Sharon, with Shimon Peres at his side, will do that. I wish I could be as sure about Abu Mazen.'b'Sharon is hopeful. "In the past, I have shaken hands with Abu Mazen, and with him I can talk," he told me the other night. "I would never shake Arafat\'s hand."'b'He is also confident that he can carry out his disengagement during or after an election, if one is needed -- provided his counterpart on the Palestinian side makes certain that the thousands of Israelis making this painful exodus are allowed to leave in peace. I take that to mean he expects Abu Mazen to restrain his armed extremists by any means necessary.'b'Egyptians under President Hosni Mubarak are now proving helpful, Sharon said: "I managed to convince them to release an Israeli they held in prison for eight years for nothing, and that changed the atmosphere -- stopped the smuggling of antitank weapons into Gaza." But what motivated Mubarak? "They are the most important country in the Arab world, and want to be recognized as a major factor." Is that all? "They want to strengthen their relationship with the United States."'b"What if, with Egypt's help, Abu Mazen is able to co-opt and pacify the Palestinian jihadists? And on the Israeli side, what if the other internal battle is resolved, and the settlers accept reality? Wouldn't a negotiated disengagement then resuscitate the road map?"b'The optimistic Sharon looked beyond the Arab-Israeli impasse to what he considers the threat to his nation\'s existence: "There is an \'axis of terror.\' It runs through Syria and Hezbollah, which has 13,000 rockets deployed in Lebanon, to Iran. And Iran\'s nuclear missile program is today the greatest danger not just to Israel, but to the world."'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: safire@nytimes.com'b'Sometimes an idea comes along that is so stupid, all you can do is stand back, give it some room, and stare:'b'THE LOS ANGELES ANGELS OF ANAHEIM'b'That is the new official name of a major league baseball team in Southern California that (1)does not play in Los Angeles, (2)is not moving to Los Angeles and (3)has no plans to put "Los Angeles" on its uniforms.'b'So what, exactly, is the team doing? It\'s trying to make more money. It wants to convince advertisers that its market extends far beyond Anaheim, a city in Orange County about 35 miles from Los Angeles, so it can charge them more. The team would just as soon drop "Anaheim" from its name altogether, but it can\'t. Its landlord is the City of Anaheim, which spent $20 million on stadium renovations as part of a deal in 1996 with the Walt Disney Company, which used to own the team. The contract includes this clause:'b'"Tenant will change the name of the Team to include the name \'Anaheim\' therein."'b'Therein lies the problem.'b'But the Angels are not letting it stop them. If it requires a bit of geographic Dadaism -- changing their name but not moving, and adding not one but two bilingual redundancies -- then so be it. They are sticking to their marketing strategy.'b"Anaheim city officials are hurt. They say they will go to court to stop what they call a breach of good faith and fair dealing. The Los Angeles Dodgers of Los Angeles are upset, too. So are many Orange County residents of Southern California. We're not sure what the New York Jets of East Rutherford or the Detroit Pistons of Auburn Hills think."b'We have to ask, though, what team name in Southern California isn\'t nuts? The names "Lakers" and "Dodgers" once made sense in Minnesota, land of lakes, and in Brooklyn, land of trolleys, but not in the land of Mickey and Goofy. Don\'t get us started on the Mighty Ducks.'b'Congress has a critical role in protecting the nation from terrorists by exercising careful scrutiny of homeland security programs. But so far, the House and Senate have been contributing to the problem rather than the solutions, distracting antiterrorism efforts by forcing officials to report to dozens of competing, power-hungry committees. The independent 9/11 commission cried out for an end to this "dysfunctional" system. Its solution was clean and obvious: create a single streamlined homeland security committee in each house, with both budget power and responsibility for oversight. Yet no national priority has been more shamefully subject to evasion by a truculent Congress ensconced in the traditions of turf battles.'b"Currently, the leaders of the Department of Homeland Security report to more than 80 committees and subcommittees in the House and Senate, each with a zealously guarded slice of the budget for securing the nation against terrorists. There is no one in Congress with the power or the responsibility to make sure the secretary of homeland security has the manpower and money he needs and to hold him accountable for the department's performance. Like the 9/11 panel, any average American could have seen the answer."b'But not Congress. In its latest evasion, the House Republican leadership this week announced, with great fanfare, that it was granting "permanent" status to the existing House Select Committee on Homeland Security. All that was lacking was jurisdiction over homeland security budgeting, spending or performance.'b'Besides leaving the committee squarely in limbo, Speaker Dennis Hastert appeased powerful rival chairmen who were already sniping away at the homeland panel, which has spent the last two years scrambling for survival and office space. The committee\'s Republican chairman, Christopher Cox of California, can look forward to an inch-by-inch struggle for jurisdiction in arcane debates in the parliamentarian\'s office as his rivals -- the ranking committee "bulls" of the Judiciary, Energy and Transportation Committees -- invoke historical precedence over the newcomer.'b"Even as the new permanent homeland panel was proclaimed, rivals already conspired to deprive it of the jurisdiction for overseeing such basic essentials as the Coast Guard, border entries and cybersecurity threats to the country's electric power grids and other vulnerable infrastructures."b'"This is the speaker\'s committee," says Mr. Cox, expecting help from on high. But even for an old wrestling coach like the speaker, refereeing the looming food fights over oversight and appropriations is no way to see that the people get proper vigilance and protection from their government.'b'Comparable cosmetic changes have been loftily proclaimed for the Senate committee system, but the same blur of jurisdiction, power jockeying and eventual inertia can be expected to continue. Three years after the 9/11 attacks, House leaders dared to defend their system in Orwellian terms as "purposeful redundancy" and a "competition of ideas." The bulls of Congress should only guard the nation this zealously.'b'It is understandable that President Vladimir Putin largely dismisses the growing criticism from abroad about the way he is running Russia. But it is another thing when one of his closest advisers feels compelled to go public with a warning about the direction the government has taken.'b'At a press conference on Dec. 28, Andrei Illarionov, a respected economist and Kremlin insider, derided the government\'s "utterly incompetent interference" in the economy. He branded the dismantling of the oil giant Yukos as "the swindle of the year." He said eliminating elected governors across Russia was a road to stagnation, and he ridiculed the Kremlin\'s meddling in the Ukrainian election.'b"That sort of public disloyalty by a political appointee wouldn't be tolerated by any president. So Mr. Putin's initial reaction -- to remove Mr. Illarionov as Russia's envoy to the Group of 8 industrial powers -- was mild. For now, Mr. Illarionov remains in the Kremlin as a senior economic adviser. But the very fact that Mr. Illarionov was driven to such unusual defiance confirmed that dismay over Mr. Putin's course is not limited to political opponents or foreign critics. Before Mr. Illarionov spoke out, two ministers warned a cabinet meeting that economic growth was suffering because the government was dragging its feet on reforms."b"Mr. Putin may honestly believe he is right to restore state control over critical resources, to unseat corrupt local governors and to take sides in the Ukraine elections. But his advisers are trying to tell him that by grabbing so much power and stifling so much debate, he is achieving an illusory stability that undermines Russia's long-term development."b'When Mr. Putin was elected in 2000, he was widely praised for appointing advisers like Mr. Illarionov whom the bureaucrats resented. Businessmen and opposition politicians described how Mr. Putin sought their advice. It would be a terrible mistake to gag the very people Mr. Putin prized for their candor. Now that he has slapped Mr. Illarionov on the wrist, he would do well to heed him.'b"At his 11th State of the State address yesterday, Gov. George Pataki presented himself as New York's No. 1 reformer. His wish list for the new year sounds astonishingly like our own wish list -- lobbying reform to cover state contracts, authorities reform, campaign finance reform, budget reform, a ban on gifts from lobbyists, better rules for the Legislature. It is an impressive lineup, and it would be even more impressive if Mr. Pataki had started pursuing these goals in earnest when he first took office 10 years ago."b'It\'s not the first time Mr. Pataki has reinvented himself as a champion of fixing Albany. As catalogued in The Times this week by Michael Cooper, the governor\'s first State of the State address 10 years ago was a pledge to junk Albany\'s musty, closed-door system. He wanted accountability and openness. He wanted campaign finance reform. He wanted on-time budgets. He even wanted a limit of two terms for governors. Yet here we are a decade later -- stuck with the same three leaders in a back room running the show. Mr. Pataki is into his third term and not ruling out a fourth. And his office complex is now so unapproachable for press and public alike that it is known in the State Capitol as "Fort Pataki." When he proposed ideas for campaign finance reform and lobbying reform, they were typically delivered to the Legislature too late to produce anything but a fancy press release.'b"In the meantime, other elected officials have gotten way ahead of the governor when it comes to the reform bandwagon. State Comptroller Alan Hevesi has made progress toward opening up the secret subculture of authorities, those public-private entities that have become a huge phantom government in New York. The Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, has led the way in advocating lobbying reform in state agencies and repeatedly pushed for improving the state's budgeting process."b"It is clear from Mr. Pataki's record in other areas that he can get a lot done if he puts his mind to it. A committed environmentalist, he has pushed for advances in air, water and land preservation in this state. With 9/11 occurring on his watch, the governor has managed a nest of egos and passions to establish the foundations for a compelling monument in Lower Manhattan."b"It is still not too late for Mr. Pataki to use some of his energy on those reformist ideals he first described so enthusiastically 10 years ago. Even if these are his last two years on the second floor of the Capitol, he can make a real difference for the future of New York's government. He can twist arms in the Legislature now to change rules next week -- to stop phantom voting, to give committee chairmen more power, to establish a basic staff allotment for every member, to promote real conference committees."b"Mr. Pataki's political future is a source of earnest debate among Republicans, some of whom even mention his name as a possible presidential candidate in 2008. To be a credible candidate, Mr. Pataki will have to show his credentials as a leader in New York. It would help, even late in his stewardship of the state, if he could take on the mantle as Albany's Mr. Reform. Mr. Pataki only needs the will to do more than just talk about it."b"As if it didn't have enough to worry about, the United Nations now is under attack from New York officials who threaten to stop a necessary refurbishment and expansion of the complex on the East River. These officials should stop pounding their chests before they hurt themselves and the city."b"At issue is the United Nations' plan to build a 35-story building on a neighboring one-acre public space called Robert Moses Playground. Diplomats and staff would move to the new building while the landmark Secretariat tower is cleaned of dangerous asbestos and gets security and other upgrades. When that's done, the new building would become office space for workers who are scattered in other buildings, including two that the cash-starved city would be able to sell for perhaps $200 million. To replace the park, the United Nations would build an esplanade park along the river for public use."b"The plan could be sweetened. U.N. officials should consider opening up some of the organization's green acres for public use. But that's not what blocked the plan last month in the State Senate. The majority leader, Joseph Bruno, reportedly took issue with diplomats' unpaid parking fines. Legislators also expressed anger over anti-Israel votes in the General Assembly and the oil-for-food scandal. Some members of the City Council joined in."b"The failings of the United Nations, large and small, don't make a case for threatening action tantamount to an eviction notice. For all their disagreements and unhappiness with the United Nations, the Bush administration proposed and Congress approved a $1.2 billion loan for the construction."b'The symbiotic relationship between the city and the world body has been a good one. New York receives an economic boost of some $2.5 billion a year. Diplomats get to live and work in a place as diverse as their ranks, unmatched as a world center of business, media, culture and learning. As global institutions go, the United Nations remains without peer, and as such, it should be nowhere but in New York. The obstructionists need to get out of the way.'b'AT least since Watergate, Americans have come to take for granted a certain story line of scandal, in which revelation is followed by investigation, adjudication and expiation. Together, Congress and the courts investigate high-level wrongdoing and place it in a carefully constructed narrative, in which crimes are charted, malfeasance is explicated and punishment is apportioned as the final step in the journey back to order, justice and propriety.'b'When Alberto Gonzales takes his seat before the Senate Judiciary Committee today for hearings to confirm whether he will become attorney general of the United States, Americans will bid farewell to that comforting story line. The senators are likely to give full legitimacy to a path that the Bush administration set the country on more than three years ago, a path that has transformed the United States from a country that condemned torture and forbade its use to one that practices torture routinely. Through a process of redefinition largely overseen by Mr. Gonzales himself, a practice that was once a clear and abhorrent violation of the law has become in effect the law of the land.'b'Shortly after the 9/11 attacks, Americans began torturing prisoners, and they have never really stopped. However much these words have about them the ring of accusation, they must by now be accepted as fact. From Red Cross reports, Maj. Gen. Antonio M. Taguba\'s inquiry, James R. Schlesinger\'s Pentagon-sanctioned commission and other government and independent investigations, we have in our possession hundreds of accounts of "cruel, inhuman and degrading" treatment -- to use a phrase of the Red Cross -- "tantamount to torture."'b'So far as we know, American intelligence officers, determined after Sept. 11 to "take the gloves off," began by torturing Qaeda prisoners. They used a number of techniques: "water-boarding," in which a prisoner is stripped, shackled and submerged in water until he begins to lose consciousness, and other forms of near suffocation; sleep and sensory deprivation; heat and light and dietary manipulation; and "stress positions."'b'Eventually, these practices "migrated," in the words of the Schlesinger report, to Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, where for a time last spring the marvel of digital technology allowed Americans to see what their soldiers were doing to prisoners in their name.'b'Though the revelations of Abu Ghraib transfixed Americans for a time, in the matter of torture not much changed. After those in Congress had offered condemnations and a few hearings distinguished by their lack of seriousness; after the administration had commenced the requisite half-dozen investigations, none of them empowered to touch those who devised the policies; and after the low-level soldiers were placed firmly on the road to punishment -- after all this, the issue of torture slipped back beneath the surface. Every few weeks now, a word or two reaches us from that dark, subterranean place. Take, for example, this account, offered by an unnamed F.B.I. counterterrorism official reporting in August, more than three months after the Abu Ghraib images appeared, on what he saw during a visit to Guant\xc3\xa1namo:'b'"On a couple of occasions, I entered interview rooms to find a detainee chained hand and foot in a fetal position to the floor, with no chair, food or water. Most times they had urinated or defecated on themselves, and had been left there for 18-24 hours or moreWhen I asked the M.P.\'s what was going on, I was told that interrogators from the day prior had ordered this treatment, and the detainee was not to be moved. On another occasionthe detainee was almost unconscious on the floor, with a pile of hair next to him. He had apparently been literally pulling his own hair out throughout the night."'b'This is a fairly mild example when judged against the accounts of the "abuses" that have entered the public record. I put quotation marks around the word "abuses" because most of these acts -- as the F.B.I. agent acknowledged ("the interrogators from the day prior had ordered this treatment") -- were in fact procedures, which would not have been possible without policies that had been approved by administration officials.'b'In the next few days we are likely to hear how Mr. Gonzales recommended strongly, against the arguments of the secretary of state and military lawyers, that prisoners in Afghanistan be denied the protection of the Geneva Conventions. We are also likely to hear how, under Mr. Gonzales\'s urging, lawyers in the Department of Justice contrived -- when confronted with the obstacle that the United States had undertaken, by treaty and statute, to make torture illegal -- simply to redefine the word to mean procedures that would produce pain "of an intensity akin to that which accompanies serious physical injury such as death or organ failure." By this act of verbal legerdemain, interrogation techniques like water-boarding that plainly constituted torture suddenly became something less than that.'b"But what we are unlikely to hear, given the balance of votes in the Senate, are many voices making the obvious argument that with this record, Mr. Gonzales is unfit to serve as attorney general. So let me make it: Mr. Gonzales is unfit because the slow river of litigation is certain to bring before the next attorney general a raft of torture cases that challenge the very policies that he personally helped devise and put into practice. He is unfit because, while the attorney general is charged with upholding the law, the documents show that as White House counsel, Mr. Gonzales, in the matter of torture, helped his client to concoct strategies to circumvent it. And he is unfit, finally, because he has rightly become the symbol of the United States' fateful departure from a body of settled international law and human rights practice for which the country claims to stand."b'On the other hand, perhaps it is fitting that Mr. Gonzales be confirmed. The system of torture has, after all, survived its disclosure. We have entered a new era; the traditional story line in which scandal leads to investigation and investigation leads to punishment has been supplanted by something else. Wrongdoing is still exposed; we gaze at the photographs and read the documents, and then we listen to the president\'s spokesman "reiterate," as he did last week, "the president\'s determination that the United States never engage in torture." And there the story ends.'b'At present, our government, controlled largely by one party only intermittently harried by a timorous opposition, is unable to mete out punishment or change policy, let alone adequately investigate its own war crimes. And, as administration officials clearly expect, and senators of both parties well understand, most Americans -- the Americans who will not read the reports, who will soon forget the photographs and who will be loath to dwell on a repellent subject -- are generally content to take the president at his word.'b'But reality has a way of asserting itself. In the end, as Gen. Joseph P. Hoar pointed out this week, the administration\'s decision on the Geneva Conventions "puts all American servicemen and women at risk that are serving in combat regions." For General Hoar -- a retired commander of American forces in the Middle East and one of a dozen prominent retired generals and admirals to oppose Mr. Gonzales -- torture has a way of undermining the forces using it, as it did with the French Army in Algeria.'b"The general's concerns are understandable. The war in Iraq and the war on terrorism are ultimately political in character. Victory depends in the end not on technology or on overwhelming force but on political persuasion. By using torture, the country relinquishes the very ideological advantage -- the promotion of democracy, freedom and human rights -- that the president has so persistently claimed is America's most powerful weapon in defeating Islamic extremism. One does not reach democracy, or freedom, through torture."b'By using torture, we Americans transform ourselves into the very caricature our enemies have sought to make of us. True, that miserable man who pulled out his hair as he lay on the floor at Guant\xc3\xa1namo may eventually tell his interrogators what he knows, or what they want to hear. But for America, torture is self-defeating; for a strong country it is in the end a strategy of weakness. After Mr. Gonzales is confirmed, the road back -- to justice, order and propriety -- will be very long. Torture will belong to us all.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Mark Danner is the author of "Torture and Truth: America, Abu Ghraib and the War on Terror."'b'Washington - The Associated Press headline that came over the wire yesterday said it all: "Gonzales Will Follow Non-Torture Policies."'b"You know how bad the situation is when the president's choice for attorney general has to formally pledge not to support torture anymore."b"Alberto Gonzales may have been willing to legally justify something that was abhorrent to everything America stands for, but it's all relative. Given that Mr. Gonzales is replacing the odious John Ashcroft, Democrats didn't seem inclined to try to derail the Hispanic nominee, even though his memo fostered the atmosphere that led to disgusting scandals in Abu Ghraib and Guant\xc3\xa1namo."b'Just to get things started on the right foot, though, Mr. Gonzales planned to go the extra mile and offer the quaint, obsolete Senate Democrats a more nuanced explanation of why he called the Geneva Conventions "quaint" and "obsolete."'b'Before he helped President Bush circumvent the accords and reserve the right to do so "in this or future conflicts," you had to tune in to an old movie with Nazi generals or Vietcong guards if you wanted to see someone sneeringly shrug off the international treaty protecting prisoners from abuse. ("You worthless running dog Chuck Norris! What do we care about your silly Geneva Conventions?")'b"How are you to believe Mr. Gonzales when he says he's through with torture? His mission is clearly to do whatever he thinks Mr. Bush wants."b"All gall is divided into parts, so what's next?"b'The Commerce Department nominee promising that giveaways to big business will be done with subtlety?'b'The Environmental Protection Agency nominee promising that the toxin content in water will never rise to Yushchenko level?'b"It's comforting to start the new year in the hands of a party that cares so much about morals and values."b'Tom DeLay and oily House Republicans inaugurated their new term by gutting ethics rules just in case any of them get caught in whatever misconduct they are plotting.'b'Rummy continued on his oblivious, dissembling path, refusing to admit that he\'s tapped out the Army and broken the Army Reserve with what Lt. Gen. James Helmly, the frustrated chief of the Army Reserve, calls "dysfunctional" policies. We\'ve gotten so numb on Iraq that when eight American soldiers and over 80 Iraqi police officers get killed, when the governor of Baghdad gets assassinated, and when our puppets plead with Mr. Bush to delay the elections, it all seems like just another week of pre-election maneuvering.'b'In The Los Angeles Times, we learn that Bush fave Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas "has accepted tens of thousands of dollars worth of gifts since joining the high court, including $1,200 worth of tires, valuable historical items and a $5,000 personal check to help pay a relative\'s education expenses."'b"A guy we pay nearly $200,000 a year can't pop for his own tires? Whatever happened to the dignity of the robe? At least we know where our possible future chief justice stands: on the side of personal corruption."b'"He also took a free trip aboard a private jet to the exclusive Bohemian Grove club in Northern California -- arranged by a wealthy Texas real estate investor who helped run an advocacy group that filed briefs with the Supreme Court," the paper said.'b'The L.A. Times reviewed the disclosures of all nine justices for the years 1998 through 2003 and found that "Thomas accepted $42,200 in gifts, making him the top recipient. Next in that period was Justice Sandra Day O\'Connor, who accepted $5,825 in gifts, mostly small crystal figurines and other items."'b'Clarence Thomas follows Antonin Scalia\'s lead on the law. Why not also on ethics? Justice Scalia defended taking his relatives on a ride on Air Force Two to Louisiana with Dick Cheney to go duck hunting, even though the v.p. had an important case before the court, by saying that it would have been a "considerable inconvenience" to fly commercial.'b"Going through a blistering confirmation hearing where his inappropriate behavior was questioned didn't teach Clarence Thomas much. Can we hope for anything better from Mr. Gonzales after he's waved through to be the man in charge of enforcing our laws?"b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b'Each day we get closer to the Iraqi elections, more voices are suggesting that they be postponed. This is a tough call, but I hope the elections go ahead as scheduled on Jan. 30. We have to have a proper election in Iraq so we can have a proper civil war there.'b'Let me explain: None of these Arab countries -- Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia -- are based on voluntary social contracts between the citizens inside their borders. They are all what others have called "tribes with flags" -- not real countries in the Western sense. They are all civil wars either waiting to happen or being restrained from happening by the iron fist of one tribe over the others or, in the case of Syria in Lebanon, by one country over another.'b'What the Bush team has done in Iraq, by ousting Saddam, was not to "liberate" the country -- an image and language imported from the West and inappropriate for Iraq -- but rather to unleash the latent civil war in that country. Think of shaking a bottle of Champagne and then uncorking it.'b'This is not to say that the "liberation" of Iraq\'s people is impossible. But unlike in Eastern Europe -- where a democratic majority was already present and crying to get out, and all we needed to do was remove the wall -- in Iraq we first need to create that democratic majority.'b'That is what these elections are about and why they are so crucial. We don\'t want the kind of civil war that we have in Iraq now. That is a war of Sunni and Islamist militants against the U.S. and its Iraqi allies, many of whom do not seem comfortable fighting with, and seemingly for, the U.S. America cannot win that war. That is a civil war in which the murderous insurgents appear to be on the side of ending the U.S. "occupation of Iraq" and the U.S. and its allies appear to be about sustaining that occupation.'b'The civil war we want is a democratically elected Iraqi government against the Baathist and Islamist militants. It needs to be clear that these so-called insurgents are not fighting to liberate Iraq from America, but rather to reassert the tyranny of a Sunni-Baathist minority over the majority there. The insurgents are clearly desperate that they not be cast as fighting a democratically elected Iraqi government -- which is why they are desperately trying to scuttle the elections. After all, if all they wanted was their fair share of the pie, and nothing more, they would be taking part in the elections.'b'We cannot liberate Iraq, and never could. Only Iraqis can liberate themselves, by first forging a social contract for sharing power and then having the will to go out and defend that compact against the minorities who will try to resist it. Elections are necessary for that process to unfold, but not sufficient. There has to be the will -- among Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds -- to forge that equitable social contract and then fight for it.'b"In short, we need these elections in Iraq to see if there really is a self-governing community there ready, and willing, to liberate itself -- both from Iraq's old regime and from us. The answer to this question is not self-evident. This was always a shot in the dark -- but one that I would argue was morally and strategically worth trying."b'Because if it is impossible for the peoples of even one Arab state to voluntarily organize themselves around a social contract for democratic life, then we are looking at dictators and kings ruling this region as far as the eye can see. And that will guarantee that this region will be a cauldron of oil-financed pathologies and terrorism for the rest of our lives.'b'What is inexcusable is thinking that such an experiment would be easy, that it could be done on the cheap, that it could be done with any old army and any old coalition and any old fiscal policy and any old energy policy. That is the foolishness of George W. Bush, Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld. My foolishness was thinking they could never be so foolish.'b"Still, the game is not over. We know that the Iraqi people do not want to be ruled by us. But what we don't know is how they want to rule themselves. What kind of majority are the Iraqi Shiites ready to be -- a tolerant and inclusive one, or an intolerant and exclusive one? What kind of minority do the Iraqi Sunnis intend to be -- rebellious and separatist, or loyal and sharing?"b"Elections are the only way to find out. Or, as Rumsfeld might say: You go to elections with the country you've got, not the one you wish you had -- because that is the only way to find out whether the one you wish for is ever possible."b'Congressional Democrats staged an unusual protest yesterday when Senator Barbara Boxer of California and Representative Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Ohio objected to certifying the results of the 2004 election. Supporters of the defeated (and absent) John Kerry then spent two hours making speeches, most of which began with the declaration that George W. Bush had definitely won.'b'It could not have been a totally satisfactory afternoon for the president\'s angry supporters or for the conspiracy theorists who still believe that Bush operatives managed to steal Ohio\'s electoral votes. The final count showed that Mr. Bush had won the state by more than 100,000 votes, and the Democrats who rose to complain about the process prefaced their remarks by saying things like "the irregularities in Ohio would not have overturned the results."'b'But the Democrats were right to call attention to the defects in the system. Our elections need to do more than produce a legitimate winner. They need to do it through a process that seems fair to all reasonable citizens. On that count, the United States has a way to go.'b'Electronic voting machines that do not produce a paper trail that can be rechecked in contested elections create worries that a contest could be stolen by computer hacking or by tampering with the machine software. Those concerns seem to have been unfounded in the last election, but it did not require paranoia to think that such things might happen.'b'It is not illegal to require voters to stand in lines so long that they wind up being forced to give up or to skip work, but it is unfair -- particularly when such delays happen mainly in poor and minority neighborhoods. It is not illegal to leave election operations in the hands of a partisan elected official, but such a situation will make the system seem biased to voters from the other side of the political divide. That is what happened in Ohio, where the secretary of state was also a co-chairman of the Bush campaign in that state.'b'Democrats were obviously most vocal about the sloppy and highhanded way the election was run in many places, but the Republicans should also object. Mr. Bush won the most votes, but he has been deprived of universal confidence in the way they were counted.'b'Chicago - "CIVILIZATION exists by geologic consent, subject to change without notice," wrote the historian Will Durant. The tsunami that struck Asia last month, caused by an earthquake off the coast of Indonesia, is a reminder of the validity of Durant\'s thesis; so far it has left some 140,000 people dead.'b"Throughout human history, earthquakes have set in motion great economic changes and political revolutions. Last month's tsunami was devastating in its toll on human life, but its economic and political effects may be more modest."b"The San Francisco earthquake in 1906 was an important catalyst for the financial shocks that led to the creation of the Federal Reserve in 1913. Because British insurance companies underwrote the majority of the city's insurance policies, millions of pounds of insurance claims were soon presented in London. The insurance claims generated a huge outflow of gold from London, which forced the Bank of England to nearly double British interest rates and to lobby British banks to stop buying American debt. Higher interest rates played a role in creating a financial panic in America, and Congress was so alarmed that it established a commission to investigate whether the government should play a greater role managing the money supply. The result of the commission's work was the creation of the Federal Reserve Bank."b"Most of the businesses and people affected by last month's tsunami are relatively poor, and few had insurance. As a result, estimates of the insurance cost of the disaster are about $10 billion. The losses to the various national economies may also not exceed $10 billion."b"Aceh, the Indonesian province where up to 100,000 people may have been killed, accounts for only about 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product. Thailand's southern provinces, which were overrun by the tsunami, contribute only about 2 percent of the country's G.D.P."b"Sri Lanka, however, suffered extensive damage to its tourism, fishing and agricultural sectors. Tourism is a major industry there, directly or indirectly accounting for nearly 11 percent of gross domestic product, and the devastation in southern Sri Lanka could reduce G.D.P. by 2 percent to 3 percent this year. The regional impact will be modest, though, because Sri Lanka's economy is only about $74 billion compared with $478 billion for Thailand and $759 billion for Indonesia."b"Thailand and Indonesia could suffer greater economic losses if their tourism industries decline; tourism is 12 percent of Thailand's economy and 10 percent of Indonesia's. But as the terrorist attack in Bali in 2002 and the SARS epidemic in 2003 demonstrated, shock events do not usually affect tourism for longer than a few months if people perceive that danger has passed. In fact, Thai hotel stocks declined on the day after the tsunami but have since recovered."b"Earthquakes have also generated great political shocks. An earthquake in November 1755 destroyed Lisbon and killed at least 60,000 people. It also encouraged Portugal's foreign minister, Sebasti\xc3\xa3o de Carvalho, to usurp power from the king and launch a campaign against the Roman Catholic Church. Carvalho effectively reigned over Portugal until 1777."b"In 1972, an earthquake in Nicaragua helped to nurture an incipient revolution against the ruling Somoza family. Outraged at the government's response to the catastrophe, many Nicaraguans in Managua turned to the Sandinistas, who ousted the Somozas in 1979."b"Last month's earthquake could have important political implications because it struck regions in Indonesia and Sri Lanka that are home to domestic insurgent groups. Separatists in Aceh and Tamils in Sri Lanka have been challenging their governments for more than 20 years. The Indonesian government was initially slow to deploy aid, and many soldiers ran from the scene of the disaster, which could affect the standing of the new president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who had been promising to improve government efficiency. The Sri Lankan government, meanwhile, has allowed international aid agencies to coordinate relief with the Tamil separatists."b'There is precedent for an earthquake encouraging political reconciliation. In 1999, earthquakes struck Turkey and Greece just a month apart and fostered cooperation between the two nations. The Turkish quake devastated an industrial city and killed more than 15,000 people; the Greeks sent relief and received positive news media coverage in Turkey. When a milder earthquake struck Greece a month later, Turkey reciprocated by sending aid.'b"The great risk in Aceh today is mismanagement of the reconstruction process. The Indonesian military has ruled the province since the fall of President Suharto in 1998 and has excluded foreign journalists. Since the earthquake, however, the province has been overrun with the global press and inundated with international relief agencies. When more foreign aid arrives, the Indonesian military could try to steal it. The presence of the United Nations could also encourage the Aceh separatists to demand more democracy in the province and even a referendum on independence. It would be a shame if the tsunami destabilized the administration of President Yudhoyono only a few months after he assumed office as a result of the country's first democratic presidential election."b'The American press has been full of stories about how American aid for the earthquake and tsunami victims could help to improve American relations with the region. Public and private donations to the region from the United States could exceed $600 million. There is little doubt that the United States is playing a leadership role along with Japan, which has pledged $500 million, and the European Union, which has pledged $580 million. The new rising power in the region, China, is offering only $63 million.'b'What is unclear is whether Asians will regard the American aid as a truly transforming event or as a temporary burst of generosity from an aggressive superpower. Much may depend upon the follow-through. There is talk in Washington of capitalizing on the disaster by intensifying efforts to obtain a free trade agreement with Thailand and revive moribund talks about such an agreement with Sri Lanka. These developments could have a more lasting impact than the aid itself.'b'IN the 19th century, Indonesia was the site of two great volcanic eruptions whose impact was felt worldwide. The eruption at Tambora in 1815 killed at least 50,000 and spewed so much ash into the atmosphere that it produced a global cooling that caused frosts in New England in the summer of 1816. The eruption at Krakatoa in 1883 wiped out more than 160 villages and killed at least 36,000 people. The explosion was so loud it was heard in Perth, Australia, thousands of miles away.'b"The most enduring legacy of last month's tsunami may be the role of technology in providing relief. Because of the Internet, thousands of people were able to wire money to charities and aid agencies immediately. Ten years ago, it would have taken several days or weeks for checks to come in the mail. The prompt response shows that globalization can be a force for good. The challenge will be to ensure that the world remains focused on the recovery after the tragedy fades from the headlines."b'Op-Ed Contributor David Hale, an economist and financial adviser, is chairman of China Online, a business news site.'b"Among the biggest obstacles to combating the global AIDS epidemic is the culture of silence and shame that continues to surround the disease, especially in hard-hit countries like South Africa, where the United Nations estimates that one in five adults have AIDS or are infected with H.I.V. Yesterday's announcement by Nelson Mandela that his 54-year-old son, Makgatho, had died of AIDS was an important step toward ending a taboo that keeps many people across Africa from talking openly about the disease's impact on them and their families, thereby hampering treatment and prevention efforts."b"Those efforts must include comprehensive and pervasive sex education and access to family planning. As it is, a majority of young women in some nations have no idea of how to protect themselves from H.I.V., and the Bush administration's overemphasis on abstinence-only programs at home and abroad does little to ameliorate that situation. At least as urgent, there is a need to enhance women's rights under the law and end the traditions of sexual coercion and violence that are largely responsible for soaring infection rates among younger women."b"This is not a new issue for Mr. Mandela. Since leaving South Africa's presidency, Mr. Mandela, a Nobel laureate who is now 86, has emerged as one of the world's most prominent voices for greater action to fight the scourge of H.I.V. and AIDS and to make life-prolonging antiretroviral drugs available even to those who cannot afford to pay. His decision to reveal the tragic toll of the disease on his family should significantly help the cause."b"NABLUS, West Bank - When you're campaigning to be the one who could bring peace, there's a fine line between telling people what they want to hear, and telling them what they need to hear. Here in the heart of this militant city, which has launched so many suicide bombers at Israel, that candidate, Mahmoud Abbas, spent yesterday daring to tell his most hard-line constituency what Yasir Arafat never had the courage to say: their intifada has hurt them more than it's hurt the Israelis."b'Mr. Abbas, now in the heat of the campaign to become the new democratically elected leader of the Palestinian people, uttered words that would not have crossed Mr. Arafat\'s lips. At Al Najah University, which Israeli officials have called a breeding ground for suicide bombers, Mr. Abbas said Palestinians had to end what he called the "chaos of the weapons." He called attacks on Israel counterproductive. The intifada, he said, was only playing into Israel\'s hands.'b'That\'s quite a way from Mr. Arafat, whose stump speeches usually consisted of the usual "we love our martyrs now let\'s march to Jerusalem" stuff. That\'s great for rousing a crowd, but not so great for preparing your people to accept the compromises that will have to come with peace.'b"It seems clear that what little chance there is for peace flowering here rests almost assuredly with Mr. Abbas, the low-key functionary who once lived in Mr. Arafat's shadow. If Palestinians are to achieve what they say is most dear to their hearts -- the promised land of their own state -- then Mr. Abbas could well be the one who could lead them there. Sunday's elections are a crucial first step."b'To be sure, it was disappointing to hear Mr. Abbas, who has been wearing a checkered kaffiyeh in an unsuccessful attempt at spicing up his staid business look, still peppering his stump speech with the usual call to protect so-called martyrs. And last week, he backslid when he allowed himself, smiling, to be hoisted onto the shoulders of West Bank gunmen, including one wanted by the Israeli army. Earlier this week, he described Israel as the "Zionist enemy" after an Israeli strike killed seven people in Gaza. Such words should be avoided by someone who claims that the first thing he wants to do after the election is to get back to the road map for peace.'b'But Mr. Abbas should also be credited with laying the groundwork that Mr. Arafat never had the stomach or desire, or whatever, to prepare.'b'It begins with acknowledging that the intifada, which Mr. Arafat largely endorsed, has brought nothing but misery to the Palestinians. The violence has simply invited Israeli incursions, along with the checkpoints throughout the West Bank that have left the Palestinians virtual prisoners within their own territory. None of them can travel freely. Those who were once able to enter Israeli cities to work can no longer do so. Heck, at one point there were so many checkpoints Palestinians could barely enter their own cities. Children have been recruited to be suicide bombers. Innocent civilians have lost their lives and homes in Israeli reprisals.'b'And the net result of all this pointless carnage has been that the Palestinians have lost even more of their bargaining power. If they do end up back at the peace table with Israel, they will begin with the glass even emptier than it was back in 2000, when they started their intifada.'b"Mr. Abbas, known here as Abu Mazen, clearly recognizes what his fellow Palestinians have chosen to ignore: the longer they dally about saying yes to a peace deal, the more land they lose. It's been that way since 1948 -- if the Palestinians had accepted the deal offered then, they would have twice as much territory as what they're asking for now."b"Whether Mr. Abbas's tell-it-like-it-is approach will gain much footing, especially here in the belly of the beast, remains to be seen. The walls of Nablus yesterday remained plastered with posters exalting the city's legions of suicide bombers."b'In a small square next to the city\'s souk, some 500 young men -- many of them Al Aksa Martyrs Brigade members -- mobbed Mr. Abbas\'s slow-moving convoy in a show of support. The leader of the Nablus chapter of Al Aksa, Nasser Jumah, who is, incidentally, high on Israel\'s wanted list, made a brief appearance. Motioning to his own body, which carried no gun, he said, "We\'ve put down our rifles to show Abu Mazen we\'re willing to give him a chance."'b'Of course, not three seconds after he said that, a group of five Al Aksa members swaggered into the square. Each of them had a gun.'b"Guess they didn't get the memo."b"If the United States were to look into a mirror right now, it wouldn't recognize itself."b'The administration that thumbed its nose at the Geneva Conventions seems equally dismissive of such grand American values as honor, justice, integrity, due process and the truth. So there was Alberto Gonzales, counselor to the president and enabler in chief of the pro-torture lobby, interviewing on Capitol Hill yesterday for the post of attorney general, which just happens to be the highest law enforcement office in the land.'b"Mr. Gonzales shouldn't be allowed anywhere near that office. His judgments regarding the detention and treatment of prisoners rounded up in Iraq and the so-called war on terror have been both unsound and shameful. Some of the practices that evolved from his judgments were appalling, gruesome, medieval."b"But this is the Bush administration, where incompetence and outright failure are rewarded with the nation's highest honors. (Remember the Presidential Medal of Freedom awarded last month to George Tenet et al.?) So not only is Mr. Gonzales's name being stenciled onto the attorney general's door, but a plush judicial seat is being readied for his anticipated elevation to the Supreme Court."b"It's a measure of the irrelevance of the Democratic Party that a man who played such a significant role in the policies that led to the still-unfolding prisoner abuse and torture scandals is expected to win easy Senate confirmation and become attorney general. The Democrats have become the 98-pound weaklings of the 21st century."b'The Bush administration and Mr. Gonzales are trying to sell the fiction that they\'ve seen the light. In answer to a setup question at his Judiciary Committee hearing, Mr. Gonzales said he is against torture. And the Justice Department issued a legal opinion last week that said "torture is abhorrent both to American law and values and international norms."'b"What took so long? Why were we ever -- under any circumstances -- torturing, maiming, sexually abusing and even killing prisoners? And where is the evidence that we've stopped?"b"The Bush administration hasn't changed. This is an administration that believes it can do and say whatever it wants, and that attitude is changing the very nature of the United States. It is eroding the checks and balances so crucial to American-style democracy. It led the U.S., against the advice of most of the world, to launch the dreadful war in Iraq. It led Mr. Gonzales to ignore the expressed concerns of the State Department and top military brass as he blithely opened the gates for the prisoner abuse vehicles to roll through."b"There are few things more dangerous than a mixture of power, arrogance and incompetence. In the Bush administration, that mixture has been explosive. Forget the meant-to-be-comforting rhetoric surrounding Mr. Gonzales's confirmation hearings. Nothing's changed. As detailed in The Washington Post earlier this month, the administration is making secret plans for the possible lifetime detention of suspected terrorists who will never even be charged."b'Due process? That\'s a laugh. Included among the detainees, the paper noted, are hundreds of people in military or C.I.A. custody "whom the government does not have enough evidence to charge in courts." And there will be plenty more detainees to come.'b"Who knows who these folks are or what they may be guilty of? We'll have to trust in the likes of Alberto Gonzales or Donald Rumsfeld or President Bush's new appointee to head the C.I.A., Porter Goss, to see that the right thing is done in each and every case."b"Americans have tended to view the U.S. as the guardian of the highest ideals of justice and fairness. But that is a belief that's getting more and more difficult to sustain. If the Justice Department can be the fiefdom of John Ashcroft or Alberto Gonzales, those in search of the highest standards of justice have no choice but to look elsewhere."b'It\'s more fruitful now to look overseas. Last month Britain\'s highest court ruled that the government could not continue to indefinitely detain foreigners suspected of terrorism without charging or trying them. One of the justices wrote that such detentions "call into question the very existence of an ancient liberty of which this country has until now been very proud: freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention."'b"That's a sentiment completely lost on an Alberto Gonzales or George W. Bush."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"It was nice to hear Alberto Gonzales tell the Senate Judiciary Committee in his opening statement yesterday that he doesn't approve of torture and that as attorney general, he'll uphold the law. But things went rapidly downhill after that. By the time the hearing ended, Mr. Gonzales, now the White House counsel, had turned it into one of those depressing exercises in avoiding straight answers and evading accountability. The spectacle brought to mind the hearings last spring when Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and his team dutifully denounced the horrors of Abu Ghraib and then refused to accept any responsibility."b'Mr. Gonzales said the Abu Ghraib photos "sickened and outraged" him. But he would not acknowledge that he or any other senior administration official was to blame, even though he was a central figure in the policy decisions that laid the groundwork for the abuse at Abu Ghraib and other American military prisons.'b'In broad terms, Mr. Gonzales offered the politically necessary repudiation of the Justice Department memo that said Mr. Bush could authorize Americans to torture prisoners with impunity and that redefined torture to exclude almost any brutality.'b'But it took a half-dozen questions by almost as many senators to get Mr. Gonzales to say declaratively that he now rejects that specific view, which the administration allowed to stand for nearly two years, until it was disclosed by news accounts. And then he equivocated astonishingly when asked whether American soldiers or intelligence agents could "legally engage in torture under any circumstances."'b'"I don\'t believe so, but I\'d want to get back to you on that and make sure I don\'t provide a misleading answer," said Mr. Gonzales, who went through many hours of preparation for these very questions.'b'Blaming a faulty memory, Mr. Gonzales would not provide anything close to a clear account of his role in the formulation of the policy on the treatment of prisoners. At one point, he said the 2002 memo was just the opinion of the Justice Department\'s Office of Legal Counsel. Then he called it the "binding interpretation" of anti-torture statutes and treaties. Later, Mr. Gonzales called it "an arguable interpretation of the law."'b'Even his vows of allegiance to the rule of law were rather peculiar. He said that as White House counsel, he had represented "only the White House," while as attorney general, he "would have a far broader responsibility: to pursue justice for all the people of our great nation, to see that the laws are enforced in a fair and impartial manner for all Americans." We thought that was also the obligation of the president and his staff.'b'Mr. Gonzales is said to face a sure confirmation. But thanks to the members of the committee, including some Republicans, who met their duty to question Mr. Gonzales aggressively, the hearing served to confirm that Mr. Bush had made the wrong choice when he rewarded Mr. Gonzales for his loyalty. The nation deserves an attorney general who is not the public face for inhumane, illegal and clearly un-American policies.'b'Washington - PERHAPS the most distressing aspect of the Asian tsunami disaster is that thousands of lives could have been saved if people in coastal areas had been told that the deadly wave was approaching. Now, as politicians and scientists start discussing ways of improving early warning systems, a history lesson may be of some help.'b'During the second Clinton administration, officials from the Central Intelligence Agency and other government departments approached me with a good idea: to establish a "fusion center" for information about natural disasters that would not only compile data but also stimulate research on forecasting. My boss, Vice President Al Gore, was interested, and after a great deal of informal interagency discussion, we began developing the Global Disaster Information Network. It called for a secure, Internet-based system to help disaster managers around the world plan for calamities and respond more effectively.'b'We set up a low-tech test model of the network and used it to coordinate information about Hurricane Mitch, which devastated Honduras and Nicaragua in 1998. This helped us compile a list of the villages that were most severely hit by the storm and get it to governmental relief agencies. We also tested the system with the Russians, in a simulated earthquake and environmental disaster in the Sakhalin oil shelf.'b"Encouraged by the results, we sought to make the network a permanent budget item, but colleagues at several agencies soon told me that the plan's association with the vice president, who was expected to run for president in 2000, made it a political target on Capitol Hill. Even so, enough discretionary money was scraped together to hold an international conference in Washington in 1998, where the idea was welcomed by foreign representatives."b'It was also our hope that the global disaster network would build on work already under way in two environmental initiatives. The first of these was known as Medea and operated out of the C.I.A. It was started during the George H.W. Bush administration at the instigation of Mr. Gore, then a senator, and its purpose was to discover whether intelligence archives and collection systems might provide clues to important issues in environmental science. Medea did extremely interesting work, both classified and unclassified, related to geological issues and natural disasters. But it too drew hostile attention in Congress, and lost its financing.'b'The other initiative, begun early in the second Clinton administration, was the Environmental Intelligence Center. Although technically inside the C.I.A., it operated independently, off the C.I.A. campus. It did some path-breaking experiments by applying intelligence systems to disaster management. But like its predecessor, it was eventually extinguished for political reasons.'b'Today, the Global Disaster Information Network survives, but it is essentially a Web site serving as a discussion forum for a large number of disaster managers. It does good work, but lacking substantial United States support, it has not developed into what was intended: a powerful force for informing emergency planning worldwide, and for advancing the science of disaster prediction.'b'It is painful to think of what might have been if, seven years ago, Congress had strongly supported our plan for the network. For one thing, it is possible that high-quality tsunami sensors would have been developed and placed on the floor of the Indian Ocean. Thus when the earthquake off Sumatra occurred on Dec. 26, scientists at a monitoring hub would have understood the risk of tsunami, and used the Web to activate an international alarm system. Disaster managers with responsibility for Asian coastal areas could have used preset links to send automated Internet, fax and phone messages to officials in the endangered countries. By the time the tsunami arrived, several hours after the earthquake, tens of thousands of people might have been able to flee to higher ground.'b"In addition, in the aftermath of the killer wave, the global network's disaster-control systems would have kicked in, with experts making quick damage assessments, getting emergency aid and rescue teams to the most crucial places more quickly. Yes, thousands would have perished in any event, but many others might have had a fighting chance."b'The earthquake and tsunami were uncontrollable natural events. But the worldwide failure to anticipate and prepare was not just a technical failure, but also one of political vision. There are going to be more calamities, and we must look at them as opportunities to do better.'b'Congress and the Bush administration should expand the Global Disaster Information Network along the lines of the original plan. Research into disaster forecasting -- by the government, academics and nongovernmental groups -- should be intensified. More warning systems, such as ocean-bottom earthquake detectors, should be put in place. In a natural disaster, we can save lives locally if we have a warning and response system that connects globally.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Leon Fuerth, a professor of international affairs at George Washington University, was national security adviser to Vice President Al Gore.'b"I've been thinking of writing a political novel. It will be a bad novel because there won't be any nuance: the villains won't just espouse an ideology I disagree with -- they'll be hypocrites, cranks and scoundrels."b'In my bad novel, a famous moralist who demanded national outrage over an affair and writes best-selling books about virtue will turn out to be hiding an expensive gambling habit. A talk radio host who advocates harsh penalties for drug violators will turn out to be hiding his own drug addiction.'b'In my bad novel, crusaders for moral values will be driven by strange obsessions. One senator\'s diatribe against gay marriage will link it to "man on dog" sex. Another will rant about the dangers of lesbians in high school bathrooms.'b'In my bad novel, the president will choose as head of homeland security a "good man" who turns out to have been the subject of an arrest warrant, who turned an apartment set aside for rescue workers into his personal love nest and who stalked at least one of his ex-lovers.'b'In my bad novel, a TV personality who claims to stand up for regular Americans against the elite will pay a large settlement in a sexual harassment case, in which he used his position of power to -- on second thought, that story is too embarrassing even for a bad novel.'b'In my bad novel, apologists for the administration will charge foreign policy critics with anti-Semitism. But they will be silent when a prominent conservative declares that "Hollywood is controlled by secular Jews who hate Christianity in general and Catholicism in particular."'b'In my bad novel the administration will use the slogan "support the troops" to suppress criticism of its war policy. But it will ignore repeated complaints that the troops lack armor.'b'The secretary of defense -- another "good man," according to the president -- won\'t even bother signing letters to the families of soldiers killed in action.'b'Last but not least, in my bad novel the president, who portrays himself as the defender of good against evil, will preside over the widespread use of torture.'b"How did we find ourselves living in a bad novel? It was not ever thus. Hypocrites, cranks and scoundrels have always been with us, on both sides of the aisle. But 9/11 created an environment some liberals summarize with the acronym Iokiyar: it's O.K. if you're a Republican."b"The public became unwilling to believe bad things about those who claim to be defending the nation against terrorism. And the hypocrites, cranks and scoundrels of the right, empowered by the public's credulity, have come out in unprecedented force."b"Apologists for the administration would like us to forget all about the Kerik affair, but Bernard Kerik perfectly symbolizes the times we live in. Like Rudolph Giuliani and, yes, President Bush, he wasn't a hero of 9/11, but he played one on TV. And like Mr. Giuliani, he was quick to cash in, literally, on his undeserved reputation."b"Once the New York newspapers began digging, it became clear that Mr. Kerik is, professionally and personally, a real piece of work. But that's not unusual these days among people who successfully pass themselves off as patriots and defenders of moral values. Mr. Kerik must still be wondering why he, unlike so many others, didn't get away with it."b"And Alberto Gonzales must be hoping that senators don't bring up the subject."b"The principal objection to making Mr. Gonzales attorney general is that doing so will tell the world that America thinks it's acceptable to torture people. But his confirmation will also be a statement about ethics."b'As White House counsel, Mr. Gonzales was charged with vetting Mr. Kerik. He must have realized what kind of man he was dealing with -- yet he declared Mr. Kerik fit to oversee homeland security.'b"Did Mr. Gonzales defer to the wishes of a president who wanted Mr. Kerik anyway, or did he decide that his boss wouldn't want to know? (The Nelson Report, a respected newsletter, reports that Mr. Bush has made it clear to his subordinates that he doesn't want to hear bad news about Iraq.)"b"Either way, when the Senate confirms Mr. Gonzales, it will mean that Iokiyar remains in effect, that the basic rules of ethics don't apply to people aligned with the ruling party. And reality will continue to be worse than any fiction I could write."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b"Kabul, Afghanistan - AROUND the Islamic world it is common currency that Muslims are perpetual victims of Western and Zionist conspiracies. The bill of particulars includes the handling of prisoners at Guant\xc3\xa1namo Bay, Israel's inequitable treatment of the Palestinians, and the deaths of thousands of civilians in Iraq -- as a result first of United Nations sanctions after the Persian Gulf war, and more recently of the American occupation. The most articulate spokesman of such views is, of course, Osama bin Laden."b"Yet when Muslims are suffering, it is usually the West, and often the United States, that takes the lead in helping. For instance, when the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979, Washington mounted its largest covert aid program since Vietnam to help the Afghan resistance; when Somalis were starving in the early 1990's, President George H.W. Bush sent 25,000 American troops to help relief efforts; when Serbs were massacring Bosnian Muslims in the mid-1990's President Bill Clinton (belatedly) directed the United States Air Force to bomb Serbian positions, which led to the Dayton accords."b'More recently, it was the United States that overthrew the tyrannical government of the Taliban, a regime recognized only by three Muslim countries: Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates. Other than Turkey, no Muslim nation has sent troops to Afghanistan to help stabilize the poorest country in the Islamic world (a few Muslim states, including Jordan, offered token deployments but were turned down).'b"Now the same pattern -- action by Western countries and inertia from Muslim states -- can be seen in the efforts to provide relief for those hardest hit by the Indian Ocean tsunami. While 100,000 of the victims are from Aceh, the most Islamic of Indonesia's provinces, Muslim countries are contributing a relative pittance. Oil-rich Saudi Arabia is contributing the most: a paltry $30 million, about the same as what Netherlands is giving and less than one-tenth of the United States contribution. And no Arab governments participated in the conference in Jakarta on Thursday where major donors and aid organizations conferred over reconstruction efforts."b'This anemic effort on the part of the richest countries is emblematic of a wider political problem in the Islamic world. For all of the invocations by Muslim leaders of the ummah, or the global community of believers, they typically do little to help their fellow Muslims in times of crisis.'b"Arab leaders and their toothless talking shops like the Arab League and the Organization of the Islamic Conference are excellent at denouncing problems in Palestine and Iraq, but most stood silent as a million died in the war between Iraq and Iran during the 1980's. When President Hafez al-Assad of Syria massacred some 20,000 people after an Islamist uprising in the city of Hama in 1982, there were no expressions of outrage from the Islamic Conference. Egypt routinely tortures political prisoners, untroubled by fears that other Arab leaders will seriously condemn such actions."b'Perhaps the generosity of Western countries will spur Islamic states to recognize that invocations of religious Muslim solidarity will do little to feed the millions of Muslims who remain acutely vulnerable to disease and starvation in the aftermath of this enormous natural catastrophe.'b'There have been a few positive signs in recent days. Spurred by criticism, Saudi state-run television organized a telethon this week that raised private pledges of more than $75 million, and the Islamic Development Bank has pledged $500 million.'b'Much remains to be done, however. The Persian Gulf countries that are reaping a bonanza from record oil prices should send a meaningful percentage of those windfall profits to their fellow Muslims devastated by the tsunami, rather than lining the pockets of their ruling families. After all, zakat, the giving of charity, is one of the five pillars of Islam.'b"Op-Ed Contributor Peter Bergen is a fellow of the New America Foundation and an adjunct professor at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies."b'AS the 109th Congress convened this week, the news media once again turned their attention to Washington. Here are some stories they may have missed.'b'Alberto Gonzales, the White House lawyer nominated for the post of attorney general, has told colleagues that he fears further harsh treatment in the Senate.'b'"They\'re going to put me in stress positions," Mr. Gonzales is reported to have said. Mr. Gonzales has directed members of his staff to revise the White House definition of torture to include torture. In 2002, Mr. Gonzales had written a memo characterizing certain forms of torture as "conversational gambits."'b"Mr. Gonzales's confirmation hearings ended this week, but the Senate Judiciary Committee has yet to send its recommendation to the full Senate for debate. One senior Democratic senator has said he intends to use Gonzales-approved interrogation methods to make the nominee squirm."b'A senatorial aide who did not want to have his identity revealed because of possible repercussions, the intern Joe Weathers, confirmed that the senator was researching whether it would be legal to isolate Mr. Gonzales before the vote and force him to listen to hours of the liberal talk radio host Al Franken.'b'"It does seem brutal," Mr. Weathers said. "But we don\'t think it violates the Geneva Conventions."'b'As the result of a bureaucratic slip-up, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld was inadvertently included in the United States government delegation sent to comfort tsunami victims in Southeast Asia.'b'"Waves happen," Mr. Rumsfeld told survivors. "Weather is untidy. Sometimes you have to make do with the weather you get instead of the weather you want."'b'Mr. Rumsfeld also criticized the news coverage of the disaster. "They just keep showing the same wave over and over again," he said.'b'Despite considerable alarm and protest in Asia over Mr. Rumsfeld\'s comments, President Bush expressed his confidence in the secretary. "Beneath his gruff, brusque exterior, Donald Rumsfeld is a sensitive, caring man," he said. Presidential sources later said Mr. Rumsfeld was scheduled to return to Washington "as soon as we can get him out of there."'b'In the House of Representatives, Democrats were horrified to learn that Republicans had adopted a provision requiring Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, to put the proceeds of his $1.9 million book deal into the legal defense fund of the House majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay.'b'"Obama\'s not even in the House," complained Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader. She said Democrats would introduce a resolution that would require Bill Frist, the Republican leader of the Senate and a doctor, to provide free checkups to all House Democrats and their dependents.'b"In the Senate, Republican leaders adopted a new rule that would make it easier to limit Democratic filibusters of President Bush's judicial nominees."b'While the old rule required the approval of at least three-fifths of the Senate to end debate, under the new rule only seven Republicans are needed to end a Democratic filibuster -- or six if the support of seven Republicans cannot be found. Filibusters are also limited to 10 minutes.'b'Democrats, for their part, vowed to filibuster the rule change. Congressional scholars were researching whether Republicans could apply the new rule to the debate over the new rule, or the debate over the debate over the new rule.'b'"Americans should not expect to see any laws come out of the Senate this year," said Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader. He pledged that Senate Democrats would work hard for all Americans to ensure that Senate Republicans worked hard for all Americans.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Tom Burka, a lawyer, writes the satirical blog Opinions You Should Have.'b'Baltimore - PROPONENTS of Social Security reform, especially those looking for a way to pay for the huge costs of a transition to partial privatization, should keep in mind the law of unintended consequences. One of the ways being touted to find the money both to make the system more solvent and to finance the personal savings accounts proposed by President Bush would harm the spouses and children of workers who die before retirement.'b'Understandably, almost all of the debate about Social Security reform has focused on the effects on future retirees or on the federal budget deficit. This overlooks the role of Social Security as a life and disability insurance program, one that provides vital benefits to spouses and more than five million American children in families whose breadwinner died prematurely or became disabled. Benefit changes that may be tolerable for future retirees could have devastating consequences for these survivors.'b'When the federal government created both welfare and Social Security during the Great Depression, it envisioned welfare as a temporary program. Eventually, policy makers believed, Social Security would replace both welfare and the numerous underfinanced state programs for widows and orphans. They were wrong about welfare, but they were right about Social Security.'b"Today, more children rely on Social Security benefits for part of their family income than on Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the nation's main cash welfare program. These benefits represent a substantial share of these families' total income for child beneficiaries. If someone earning $32,000 a year, close to the national average, dies at the age of 40, annual benefits for his three children would be $25,000, replacing roughly 78 percent of his earnings. That's not exactly comfortable, but it's a lot better than the federal poverty level, which is about $19,000 for a family of four."b'According to government actuaries, a young worker with average earnings, a young spouse and two young children has Social Security protection equal to a life insurance policy with a face value of $400,000 and a disability policy of about $350,000. For the surviving children and their widowed parent, Social Security represents the difference between getting by and dropping into poverty and reliance on welfare.'b'That legacy may now be threatened. Some in the Bush administration have endorsed the idea of changing the way in which benefits are determined by linking benefit increases not to the rise in average wages, but rather to the rise in inflation.'b"Currently, workers' anticipated initial benefits rise each year in step with the national average wage. It's called wage-indexing, and it ensures that Social Security continues to replace about the same proportion of retirees' pre-retirement incomes from one generation to the next. But inflation increases slower than wages, so under the administration's preliminary proposal, Social Security benefits would fall over time."b"This change would save the system trillions of dollars -- yet it would also mean that over time the percentage of pre-retirement income replaced by Social Security would decline. Instead of replacing about 40 percent of wages for the average worker, as under current law, the replacement rate would drop slowly but surely over the next several decades, down to 22 percent by 2065. Instead of an annual benefit of about $26,400 (in today's dollars), the average retiree or survivor would get just $14,600."b"Those in favor of personal accounts say that workers who invest wisely (and stay lucky) during the decades before they retire could make up much of the difference. While that argument may or may not be valid, it applies only to workers fortunate enough to make it to retirement. The surviving children and spouses of workers who die before they accumulate their nest eggs would get less. Because survivors' benefits are based on the same formula used to set retirement benefits, proposals to curtail future benefit increases would lower benefits for children unless specifically exempted."b"Those benefits are vital. For many hard-working parents, Social Security's life and disability insurance is the only source of coverage for calamities outside their control. Only about half of private-sector workers have life insurance through their employers; for low-wage workers, private life insurance is a rarity and disability insurance is still rarer. If the government changes the way it calculates Social Security benefits, then millions of children would suffer when a parent dies without leaving them generous savings or life insurance."b'It was only a decade ago that Congress enacted legislation to "end welfare as we know it." It would be a disaster if Congress were to reform Social Security in a way that would slowly swell the ranks of the poor and welfare-dependent with an army of "widows and orphans."'b'Op-Ed Contributor Michael C. Laracy is a senior associate at the Annie E. Casey Foundation.'b'The New York State Common Retirement Fund has just done the cause of better corporate governance a service. As part of a broader $54 million settlement largely engineered by the fund, 10 former directors of the telecommunications giant WorldCom have agreed to fork over $18 million of their own money to settle a class-action lawsuit brought by the fund and other angry investors who lost hundreds of millions of dollars when the company collapsed in 2002, the largest bankruptcy in history.'b'WorldCom is an extreme example of what can happen if a board utterly fails to do its duty. Bernard Ebbers, the swashbuckling founder, was allowed to manage the company as a personal fiefdom. Among other shenanigans, WorldCom failed to deduct billions in expenses and was eventually forced to restate its results for 2000 and 2001, reducing its pretax income by an astonishing $74 billion.'b"Directors as well as company officers have almost always relied on company insurance to bail them out in situations like this. But the retirement fund and the other plaintiffs appear to have insisted from the start that any negotiated settlement include a penalty that would personally hurt board members in their wallets -- the very wallets they sat on while Mr. Ebbers ran the company into the ground. As Gretchen Morgenson's account of the negotiations in The Times made clear, the plaintiffs were just as interested in sending a signal to complacent boards of directors elsewhere as they were in recovering losses, which in the case of the retirement fund amounted to $300 million."b'One downside to the settlement is that the effort to frighten away the bad actors that still exist in corporate America could deter talented people from ever getting involved. This would run counter to the interests of investors, Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the stock exchange, all of whom have been asking for a greater role for independent directors.'b'But this concern is outweighed, in our view, by the benefits. The WorldCom settlement will make boards elsewhere sit up and take notice. Lazy or incompetent board members, who in the past might have happily coasted along forever, enjoying the rewards of their post without doing the work, may decide to steer clear of a role that could expose them to financial penalties.'b'In strictly financial terms, no settlement is ever going to make bilked investors whole or anywhere near it. What will protect investors are boards that are effective in overseeing the companies they govern -- who ask tough questions and do not ignore red flags that could prevent disasters like Enron and WorldCom from happening in the first place.'b"One of our hopes for the new year is that Congress and the Bush administration will jointly and urgently address the manifold problems plaguing America's coastal waters. Two important panels, one private, one commissioned by Congress itself, have warned that the oceans simply cannot sustain prolonged abuse from industrial and recreational overfishing, from unchecked coastal development as well as polluted agricultural and urban runoff."b"This is a problem that most American leaders have either ignored or, like former President Clinton, acknowledged too late in their careers to do much about it. Tackling it head-on would do a lot to repair Mr. Bush's reputation among environmentalists and provide him a leadership role on one of the central environmental issues of the 21st century."b'Mr. Bush gave an indication of how he felt about this issue last month when the White House, as required by statute, released its formal response to the findings of the Congressional commission. The most that can be said about this 39-page report is that it is earnest; a summons to the barricades it is not. It dutifully touches on most of the major problems and creates by executive order a cabinet-level committee to coordinate 140 ocean-related laws and programs administered by dozens of agencies.'b'But there it stops. Though billed as an "action plan," the report is actually an invitation to paralysis by analysis, calling for more committees and more research into problems that have been committee-ed and researched to death.'b'We do not, for instance, need more science to tell us that industrial fishing has strip-mined the oceans of valuable fish species, that pollution is killing coral reefs and causing dead zones in the Gulf of Mexico. What we need are concrete regulatory initiatives to discipline the commercial fishing industry (letting scientists, not fishermen, set quotas), to control residential development, reform farming practices and provide enough money to get the job done.'b'There are already a half-dozen bills in Congress aimed at accomplishing these objectives, and more are on the way. The White House should either get behind them or make its own concrete proposals. The oceans and the ecosystems they support are in peril and the peril is increasing. To propose more years of research is a bit like taking notes while driving off a cliff.'b'The Indonesian province of Aceh and the country of Sri Lanka, united today by the ravage of a tsunami, previously had in common histories of man-made destruction. Both places are battlegrounds, the sites of long-running separatist guerrilla wars that have killed tens of thousands of civilians. Conflict is not helpful when there is catastrophe, and early reports from both areas indicate that enmity and suspicion have held up relief efforts.'b'But catastrophe can be healing for conflict. Working together in times of human disaster can help build confidence between the two sides, and foster a feeling of solidarity among ethnic groups. Just as important, the catastrophe offers politicians the opportunity to make compromises that would otherwise be politically impossible. Politicians and guerrillas in Indonesia and Sri Lanka should take advantage of these side effects of the disastrous situation to help solve their human conflicts.'b"In Aceh, where at least 100,000 people have died so far from the tsunami, rebels have fought since 1976 to free the province, which was an independent nation for centuries, from Indonesian rule. The Free Aceh guerrillas kill civilians, but 90 percent of the civilian murders in the region are committed by Indonesia's armed forces and paramilitary police. The war continues in no small part because Indonesian military officers are unwilling to give up a lucrative source of corrupt plunder. In May 2003, Indonesia imposed a harsh state of emergency, which blocked almost all outsiders from entering Aceh, including humanitarian groups, diplomats and journalists. Since then, at least 2,000 people have been killed."b'Now Aceh is full of foreigners. There are anecdotal reports of cooperation between the sides in small ways, at the individual level. Prison wardens freed guerrilla inmates from a flooded prison, for example, and when a call was made for these fighters to return to help relief efforts, almost all did. Donations for Acehnese relief from the rest of Indonesia -- where Aceh is not popular -- have run high.'b'But so far the leaders are missing the opportunity. The rebels announced a unilateral ceasefire, but this was not matched by the military -- long indifferent to how its actions turn Acehnese citizens against the government. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has not lifted the state of emergency. So the army is doling out aid while pursuing guerrillas. (Thursday, not far from where the tsunami hit, the Indonesian military killed seven men that it said were connected with the rebels, but whose relatives say were innocent victims.) And there are already indications that the military is looking at relief efforts as a continuation of the war. Soldiers are trying to heavily control aid to ensure that it does not fall into rebel hands while also skimming off the top. Some local citizens have said that the military does not let them travel to search for or help family members, and that soldiers have withheld aid from people who lack a special ID card given by the police in Aceh, a card many are too afraid to apply for.'b"Indonesia's politicians and military need international encouragement to pursue different policies. The president must lift the state of emergency, open all of Aceh and keep it open. As much as possible, civilian Acehnese should carry out relief efforts, as part of a necessary long-term demilitarization of the society. Officials of the United States, forbidden by American law to finance Indonesia's military because of its rampant human-rights violations, should not be making noises about resuming financial ties. Instead, outside nations should be encouraging the guerrillas to give up their armed struggle and the government to return to the terms of a peace agreement reached two years ago."b"The dead in Sri Lanka lived in areas under government rule and in zones controlled by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, a ruthless guerrilla movement that since 1983 has fought for autonomy for the country's Hindu Tamil minority. A ceasefire was reached in 2002, but recently the guerrillas' leader had threatened to resume war."b"Not surprising, suspicion is rampant in the tsunami's aftermath, with each side accusing the other of hijacking aid. Sri Lankans would benefit if both worked more closely with the Sri Lanka Monitoring Mission, a Norwegian-led group created after the ceasefire, to reach agreement on the roles each will play."b"But cooperation between the two sides in Sri Lanka appears to be deeper than in Aceh, offering the warring parties a glimpse of the human side of their rivals. Both groups seem aware of the public- relations benefits of running efficient relief operations. Because Sri Lanka's victims come from all religions and ethnic groups, the tsunami has also united the nation, however briefly. It is a ripe moment in a malignantly divided country, one that both sides should seize to offer concessions that may quickly become, once again, unimaginable."b'Here are five observations about the politics of Social Security reform:'b"First, many Republicans will be loathe to back a bill that has no Democratic support. They don't want to transform a big, popular program without bipartisan cover."b'Second, it will be hard to get Democratic votes for a bill that includes personal accounts. Democrats oppose them for the same reason that Republicans support them: because they think the accounts will create Republicans. People who have them will start thinking like investors.'b'Third, any compromises that win you Democratic votes in the Senate, lose you Republican votes in the House. For example, if Senate Republicans raise the payroll tax caps, they might get some Democrats. But they will lose House Republicans by the dozens. This is the cruel logic we are going to come across again and again this Congress. Changes that build majorities in one house destroy majorities in the other.'b"Fourth, even if Republicans try to go it alone, they probably will not agree among themselves. If the White House comes out with a bill that cuts benefits, the Democrats won't have to go into opposition. Newt Gingrich, Jack Kemp and Steve Forbes will already be there. On the other hand, if there are no benefit cuts, the financial markets may go ballistic. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin is working on a Third Way approach to please both sides. If he can do it, he's a magician."b'Fifth, the administration is doing a poor job of communicating with members. Republicans, except at the top, feel isolated. They doubt that John Snow or anybody else in the administration has enough skill and authority to guide this through Congress.'b"All of this adds up to big trouble. Does that mean you walk away from Social Security reform? No. It makes sense to preserve and modernize New Deal and Great Society programs so they fit tomorrow's world. But it does mean you stop and look for alternate routes before you hit the roadblock."b"What to do? This is the moment for the White House to seize the Reagan Rule -- you can get a lot done in Washington as long as you don't get credit. The president should follow Senator Chuck Grassley's advice and let Congress take the lead in drafting a bill. That would go a long way to depolarizing the issue."b"Next, it would be useful to broaden the frame of discussion. All the talk so far revolves around Option 2 from the president's 2001 commission. Why limit ourselves? There are dozens of creative reform ideas out there. Many include getting rid of the regressive and job-crushing payroll tax and replacing it with something else. In this week's Weekly Standard, Irwin Stelzer recommends a tax on pollution and imported oil. Others suggest a consumption tax."b'Politically, blending Social Security reform with tax reform gives you more moving parts. There are more opportunities for negotiation and compromise.'b"The president's role -- at the Inauguration and the State of the Union address and after -- will be to educate the country about the problem and lay out some parameters. He doesn't need to say what the legislation should look like. That's too wonky. He should talk about what the country should look like. Social Security is more than accounting; it's values."b'Here are some of the values he might endorse:'b'First, Social Security reform should liberate our kids, not shackle them. It should eliminate the fiscal overhang so they have the money to tackle the problems that will arise in their own day.'b'Second, the reform should be transparent, so that people can see what kind of return they are getting on the money they put into the system. People should have information about their own lives.'b"Third, it should enhance people's control over their own retirement. In a self-governing democracy, citizens should do for themselves what they can do for themselves."b"Fourth, people should be encouraged to work longer. In an age in which many live into their 90's, we should be making better use of people in their 70's and 80's."b"Fifth, we need a savings revolution. The plan should encourage the nation to save more, to create more capital for America's future greatness."b"This is a time to trust the legislative process. Social Security has a better chance of passage if Congress leads. It's also time to think big. Social Security reform plus tax reform go a long way toward getting you to an ownership society."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b"If the U.S. wants to help people in tsunami-hit countries like Sri Lanka and Indonesia -- not to mention other poor countries in Africa -- there's one step that would cost us nothing and would save hundreds of thousands of lives."b'It would be to allow DDT in malaria-ravaged countries.'b"I'm thrilled that we're pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into the relief effort, but the tsunami was only a blip in third-world mortality. Mosquitoes kill 20 times more people each year than the tsunami did, and in the long war between humans and mosquitoes it looks as if mosquitoes are winning."b"One reason is that the U.S. and other rich countries are siding with the mosquitoes against the world's poor -- by opposing the use of DDT."b'"It\'s a colossal tragedy," says Donald Roberts, a professor of tropical public health at Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. "And it\'s embroiled in environmental politics and incompetent bureaucracies."'b"In the 1950's, 60's and early 70's, DDT was used to reduce malaria around the world, even eliminating it in places like Taiwan. But then the growing recognition of the harm DDT can cause in the environment -- threatening the extinction of the bald eagle, for example -- led DDT to be banned in the West and stigmatized worldwide. Ever since, malaria has been on the rise."b'The poor countries that were able to keep malaria in check tend to be the same few that continued to use DDT, like Ecuador. Similarly, in Mexico, malaria rose and fell with the use of DDT. South Africa brought back DDT in 2000, after a switch to other pesticides had led to a surge in malaria, and now the disease is under control again. The evidence is overwhelming: DDT saves lives.'b"But most Western aid agencies will not pay for anti-malarial programs that use DDT, and that pretty much ensures that DDT won't be used. Instead, the U.N. and Western donors encourage use of insecticide-treated bed nets and medicine to cure malaria."b"Bed nets and medicines are critical tools in fighting malaria, but they're not enough. The existing anti-malaria strategy is an underfinanced failure, with malaria probably killing 2 million or 3 million people each year."b"DDT doesn't work everywhere. It wasn't nearly as effective in West African savannah as it was in southern Africa, and it's hard to apply in remote villages. And some countries, like Vietnam, have managed to curb malaria without DDT."b"But overall, one of the best ways to protect people is to spray the inside of a hut, about once a year, with DDT. This uses tiny amounts of DDT -- 450,000 people can be protected with the same amount that was applied in the 1960's to a single 1,000-acre American cotton farm."b"Is it safe? DDT was sprayed in America in the 1950's as children played in the spray, and up to 80,000 tons a year were sprayed on American crops. There is some research suggesting that it could lead to premature births, but humans are far better off exposed to DDT than exposed to malaria."b'I called the World Wildlife Fund, thinking I would get a fight. But Richard Liroff, its expert on toxins, said he could accept the use of DDT when necessary in anti-malaria programs.'b'"South Africa was right to use DDT," he said. "If the alternatives to DDT aren\'t working, as they weren\'t in South Africa, geez, you\'ve got to use it. In South Africa it prevented tens of thousands of malaria cases and saved lots of lives."'b'At Greenpeace, Rick Hind noted reasons to be wary of DDT, but added: "If there\'s nothing else and it\'s going to save lives, we\'re all for it. Nobody\'s dogmatic about it."'b'So why do the U.N. and donor agencies, including the U.S. Agency for International Development, generally avoid financing DDT programs? The main obstacle seems to be bureaucratic caution and inertia. President Bush should cut through that and lead an effort to fight malaria using all necessary tools -- including DDT.'b'One of my most exhilarating moments with my children came when we were backpacking together and spotted a bald eagle. It was a tragedy that we nearly allowed DDT to wipe out such magnificent birds, and we should continue to ban DDT in the U.S.'b"But it's also tragic that our squeamishness about DDT is killing more people in poor countries, year in and year out, than even a once-in-a-century tsunami."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b'Stanford, Calif. - IRAQ is about to reach a point of no return. If, as President Bush insists, it goes ahead with elections for the new transitional government on Jan. 30, Iraq may score a huge moral and political victory for democracy over violence and terrorism. More likely, however, these elections will only increase political polarization and violence by entrenching the perceptions of Sunni Arab marginalization that are helping to drive the violence in the first place. This would not be the first instance when badly timed and ill-prepared elections set back the prospects for democracy, stability and ethnic accommodation. Think of Angola in 1992, Bosnia in 1996, Liberia in 1997.'b"Contrary to the conventional wisdom, the problem is not simply that there is too much mayhem and disorder in significant parts of Iraq. Let's face it, at some point Iraq will have to hold elections, and foreign terrorists, religious fanatics and diehard defenders of the old order will try to use violence to obstruct them."b'Rather, the problem right now is that the opposition to holding elections goes well beyond these irreconcilable spoilers. It includes a great many other actors -- many of them moderate and democratic -- who believe that elections this month cannot possibly be fair, and who have therefore resolved not to legitimize them by participating.'b'These people -- encompassing a wide array of Sunni Arab civic, tribal and religious leaders -- can be brought into the political process. If they were to participate in elections, the insurgent and terrorist violence plaguing Iraq would be substantially reduced. If their exclusion from the political process is confirmed by elections this month, ethnic and religious animosities will only intensify, and the country could well slide toward civil war.'b"The most serious calls for postponement come from Sunni political forces that oppose not democracy per se, but rather the structure of the transitional political process. Specifically, they object to the electoral system of proportional representation for the new assembly that will choose a transitional government and write a constitution; seats will be allocated not based on geography but on the national vote results. With violence and instability much more pervasive in the Sunni provinces, they worry that polling will be disrupted, hurting Sunni slates' chance of winning enough votes to qualify for seats."b"If turnout is much heavier in the Shiite south and Kurdish north than in Sunni provinces like Al Anbar (which includes Falluja) and Salaheddin (whose capital is Saddam Hussein's hometown, Tikrit), the Sunnis, who account for about 15 percent to 20 percent of the population, may win only a tiny percentage of the seats. Then, they fear, their bid for a fair share of power and resources in the new system would be crushed. (That the Kurds and Shiites have been subjected to such treatment by the central government for decades doesn't justify their perpetuating it.)"b'Sunni political and social leaders are not calling for an open-ended cancellation of the election. They are requesting a one-time postponement of several months, in order to establish the "necessary conditions" for a fair and inclusive vote. They want a more transparent electoral commission. They want citizens to be better informed about the electoral process. They worry that some who have registered to vote are foreigners (mostly Iranians) recruited to back the more militant Shiite parties.'b'Most of all, however, these Sunnis want electoral districts to be established (perhaps along the lines of the existing 18 provinces), so that each province can be assured of some minimum representation in Parliament, based on its estimated share of the national population. Proportional representation would give each party or coalition a share of the seats in each province equivalent to its share of the provincial vote. (In fact, a version of this electoral system is precisely what I and other experts recommended to the Coalition Provisional Authority early last year, but our suggestion fell on deaf ears.)'b'Yes, Sunni opposition forces have made other requests that cannot be fully accommodated, including the withdrawal of American forces from Iraqi cities within a month of the election and the restructuring of the current interim government. But the need now is not for pure concession or pure rejection, but rather for negotiation.'b'Fortunately, it is no longer true, as has often been argued, that there is no one to negotiate with. Over the last few months, Sunni religious, tribal, civic and political leaders have begun meeting and forming alliances. At a conference in Tikrit on Dec. 23, Sunni representatives from seven provinces met, released a statement articulating their concerns and requests, and elected an "executive body" to negotiate on their behalf.'b"The group's leadership committee includes Hatem Mukhlis, the surgeon who met with President Bush in the Oval Office two months before the invasion of Iraq and is now a member of Iraq's interim advisory council, and Saleh Mutlaq, a former senior Iraqi Army officer who was sentenced to death by Saddam Hussein in 1978 for refusing to suppress the Shiite community, then was spared and became a successful businessman. Also prominent in this new coalition is the Association of Muslim Scholars, the principal body of Sunni Muslim clerics, and another recently formed group, the Iraqi National Founding Congress, whose spokesman is a Baghdad University political scientist, Wamid Nadmi."b'The members of this Sunni coalition are varied. Some of them are moderate, with democratic credentials. Some are extremely anti-American -- Arab nationalists and Islamists who have openly sympathized with the insurgency. The Bush administration is adamant that it "will not negotiate with terrorists" -- and will not condone the Iraqi authorities doing so either. But in conditions approximating civil war, you are not going to find many Mother Teresas. You negotiate with agents and sympathizers of violence who decide that they are ready to take a different path.'b'The Sunni coalition leaders have said that if the voting is postponed and their concerns are addressed, they will call on their followers to participate in the rescheduled elections. Otherwise, they are committed to a boycott, which in the existing climate of violence and fear would likely depress voter turnout to minuscule levels in their provinces.'b"While Prime Minister Ayad Allawi last week reiterated the call for keeping the elections on schedule, an ever-growing group of Iraqis is now coming to recognize that they must be postponed. This includes two respected Sunni politicians who were members of the Iraqi Governing Council: Adnan Pachachi, who led the drafting of Iraq's liberal interim constitution, and the moderate Islamist politician Mohsen Abdul Hameed. The advocates of postponement now also include an overwhelming majority of Iraq's 33 ministers, and last week President Ghazi al-Yawar discussed having the United Nations reassess whether elections should be held."b"What is needed now is for all of Iraq's social and political stakeholders to sit down and talk. The outlines of a compromise are visible. The Sunnis could get a one-time postponement of the vote, an electoral system based substantially on provincial districts, and certain other political and administrative reforms. The leading Shiites, who have drawn together into the United Iraqi Alliance and seem set to win an election no matter when it is held or under what system, could get a commitment on the part of the Sunni opposition groups to end the electoral boycott and to work to reduce the violence, and thus to create a political situation in which their victory will be worth having."b'In crises, democracy is not forged through a sudden moral conversion of warring parties to principles of freedom and the rule of law. Rather, bitter antagonists come to see a democratic accommodation as their second-best option -- worse than the domination they would prefer, but better than the mutual destruction that they risk through continued strife.'b"In the coming days, Iraqi political and social leaders have the opportunity to reach across their lines of division and begin to forge such a historic compromise. It is in America's interest to urge them to do so. If, instead, they plunge forward with elections that leave one section of the country excluded and embittered, we will all be the losers."b'Op-Ed Contributor Larry Diamond, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and an editor of The Journal of Democracy, was an adviser to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad from January 2004 to April 2004.'b"To understand today's China, it is necessary to look beyond the unfathomable ebb and flow of 1.3 billion people. It is only by studying the few that it is possible to grasp what is happening to the overwhelming many -- like Yu Jikui, a porter whose slight by a passer-by set off riots in Wanzhou; or the young Yang Shan, whose parents both work in distant cities; or the developer Zhang Yuchen, who built a castle fit for Marie Antoinette where 800 farmers once grew wheat."b"The human story behind the data about how China is blossoming economically lies in the writings of an 18-year-old that explain why he would commit suicide after he could not afford to take a college entrance exam. Wang Lincheng counts the cancer deaths near a viscous black stream filled with industrial toxins. These individuals, whose lives were described in articles by The Times's Joseph Kahn and Jim Yardley, provide telling clues about the gap between rich and poor, between the fortunate urbanites and the rural have-nots. This is the other, darker side of China's boom."b"When Hu Jintao took over China's leadership two years ago, he promised a more socially minded version of economic growth, in which ordinary people, their land and the environmental future would no longer be trampled in a heedless rush for higher output and exports. But the disparities between booming cities and the impoverished countryside, and between thriving export platforms and a hulking, hopeless rust belt, are growing even more brutal. Mr. Hu seems more interested in silencing the messengers than in dealing with these problems."b'Instead of beginning to institute a workable rule of law, a freer press and a better system for allowing the underdog to be heard, Mr. Hu has busied himself consolidating his own power and trying to restore order and discipline within an unreformed Communist Party. In keeping with his chilling comment that Western democracy is a "blind alley," Mr. Hu has already made it clear that the government is ready to crack down on journalists, scholars and protesters who cross his unmarked line.'b'Silencing these critics brings no relief for those millions who are enduring the real abuses in the countryside. Chinese farmers and factory workers routinely talk about corrupt local officials who siphon off relief money from Beijing or steal funds allocated to farmers who give up their land for other uses. Simmering anger and even street protests occurring in some rural areas become all the more understandable after local officials freely seize farmland or village property, then reinforce actions with police goons. What adds to this unfairness is a system that allows city dwellers to buy and sell apartments while farmers may not own their own fields.'b"A leadership that treats this unrest as a threat to its authority instead of a desperate cry for help threatens to negate much of the good that has come from China's economic upheaval -- the opening to tourism, student exchanges and scientific cooperation; the ability for people to migrate; the creation of some independent farming; and a growing middle class whose cellphones can dial abroad. The test for Mr. Hu is not whether he can steer the new China into an ever-more-powerful position in the world marketplace. It is to deal wisely with the deepening chasm between rich and poor in his own country."b'"Tort reform," the Bush administration\'s answer to the problem of high medical malpractice costs, makes sense from only one aspect: the political. The genius of tort reform, which focuses on putting a cap on the awards from malpractice suits, is that it offends only one big-money lobbying group: trial lawyers, who are important financial supporters of the Democratic Party. Meanwhile, it helps or holds harmless Republican special interests in the insurance, drug and health care industries. The only problem is that it hurts the hapless patients who suffer grievous harm at the hands of incompetent doctors.'b"We hold no brief for the current medical liability system, which does a poor job of compensating most victims of medical malpractice. An authoritative study of thousands of patients in New York State found that the vast majority who were harmed by medical errors or negligence never filed suit, whereas the vast majority of those who did file suit were not actually harmed by negligent doctors. Some studies suggest that, once a suit is filed, the courts do a reasonably good job of sorting out who deserves compensation, while other research has found that juries are swayed more by the severity of a plaintiff's injuries than by evidence of negligence. But in a medical system that is coming under increased fire for failing to deliver consistent quality in hospital care, it is clear that only a small number of people are being compensated for malpractice."b"The problem with the president's approach, which would limit noneconomic damages to a paltry $250,000, is that it would punish many of those most deserving of compensation. If there is a problem with frivolous lawsuits, that is best addressed by raising the hurdles for filing a malpractice suit, perhaps by requiring an expert judgment on the merits of a case before it can proceed through the courts. But surely $250,000 hardly makes up for the physical and emotional damage done to people who have suffered total paralysis, permanent blindness or severe brain injury because of medical errors. Instead, Congress ought to consider requiring guidelines for judges and juries to help determine what compensation is reasonable in a given circumstance. Similar guidelines could help ensure that punitive damages are high enough to deter bad conduct; $250,000 would hardly amount to a wrist slap."b'Politicians endorsing tort reform say a crisis of escalating malpractice insurance premiums is forcing doctors out of business. The extent to which this is an actual problem is murky. Insurance companies have substantially raised premiums for malpractice coverage for doctors in high-risk specialties like obstetrics and neurosurgery in some states, leading at least some doctors to curtail their services, retire or move. The White House laments that patients in some areas are thus forced to travel long distances to find, for example, obstetrical care. But when the Government Accountability Office visited five of the hardest hit states in 2003, it found only scattered problems and was unable to document wide-scale lack of access to medical care.'b'Most states that are burdened with high premiums have already set their own caps, generally at more reasonable levels than those proposed by the president. It would seem more useful to consider making it harder for insurance companies to gain rate increases. The best response, one that would benefit the public in general, would be to weed out the small number of negligent doctors responsible for generating most of the malpractice awards.'b'None of the tort reform proposals deal with the underlying need to identify harmed patients and provide them with fair, prompt compensation. Experts have suggested a number of approaches, including special health courts with judges trained to deal with malpractice issues, required mediation, mandatory reporting of errors by doctors and prompt offers of compensation. But there is a lot of uncertainty about what would work best.'b'Although the administration has been sponsoring some projects to reduce medical errors or speed the resolution of claims, these have faded behind the full-court political press to impose "tort reform." Instead of fixating on an idea that would do little to solve anything but the health care industry\'s desire for fewer big court awards, Congress should push for a wide range of demonstration projects aimed at solving the malpractice problem by actually cutting down on malpractice.'b'Their eyes, wide and alert and attached to freely swiveling, chatting heads, are the tip-off that these are not daily riders on the Long Island Rail Road. The regulars are the mute ones whose eyes are shut or glazed, their heads wedged between seat and window or drooping on the stem like unwatered daisies.'b"Those people, the working drudges, will scatter once the train pulls into Pennsylvania Station. But the chirpy ones, after a moment for orientation, the counting of children and the pulling on of hats and gloves, are pretty much all going to the same place, for the same reason -- to participate in a winter rite that peaked at Christmas and is winding down around now. It's called A Day in the City, though it really takes place only in a skinny sector of Manhattan centered on Rockefeller Center and extending south to Times Square and north to F.A.O. Schwarz. And it lasts only a few hours."b'These out-of-towners are making a pilgrimage to a magical city famed in song and lithograph and TV movie. They have subdued their squeegee-guy anxiety and subway map intimidation to savor something splendid and delightful.'b"Too bad it does not always work out that way. As any cranky 6-year-old will tell you, Midtown in midwinter is hard work. The odds of disillusionment are high. It's tiring and boring. The lines are endless, the pretzels tasteless. The animatronics in the store windows haven't dazzled anybody since the 1950's. And Fifth Avenue in December is like a salmon ladder in the late July run, only less polite."b"As one dutiful dad recently explained to a radio reporter: We do this, but it isn't much fun."b"I wondered about this while riding the human tide up Fifth the other day. The lunchtime line at T.G.I. Friday's was spilling into the street, and the 49th Street sidewalk all the way to Madison Avenue was filled with preteen girls and their caregivers waiting to get into American Girl Place, world headquarters of the expensive-doll-and-accessory racket. People looked grim and irritated, but not stupid. So why did they do this to themselves?"b"It's not that the frame houses and quiet streets of suburbia are not appealing. They have just about everything necessary for a perfect, picturesque holiday, especially under a layer of snow and most especially at night, when strings of holiday lights and glowing blow-mold Santas can make any split ranch rival the Winter Palace. Still, people bundle up and leave. Why?"b"Maybe it's simply this: Christmas needs a crowd. Maybe the people who submit to the seasonal city crush do so to be with other people, if only for a little while. The joys of winter holidays in the popular imagination are communal, after all. It's sad to realize that the lights on your house are mainly for the benefit of the guy across the street, whose shades are drawn, and that nobody is going to jingle by in a sleigh anytime soon. Maybe all that driving, parking, riding, walking, shoving, standing, waiting and overpaying are worth it, even without lunch and a little shopping and a Wednesday matinee."b"Hell is other people, we are told. But Allan Gurganus wrote that Heaven is other people, too -- just other other people. They may be annoying, loud, clumsy people who snap at you and take your money. But they remind you -- especially if you are sated and numb, as so many are at the holidays -- that you are alive and your senses work and you are part of something bigger than your cul-de-sac. It's a nice reminder to have."b'Even if only once a year.   LAWRENCE DOWNES'b"In 1998, with great expectations and after years of citizen lobbying, the New York State Legislature gave formal approval to one of the most important civic projects in 100 years -- the creation of the Hudson River Park. As envisioned by its planners, the park would replace five miles of industrial hulks, parking lots and rotting piers on Manhattan's Far West Side with an inviting mix of open space (some of it on brand-new piers), gardens, pedestrian walkways and tasteful commercial development. It would run from 59th Street to Battery Park City and, when finished, would give New Yorkers ready access to one of the world's great rivers."b'One section of the park, adjacent to Greenwich Village, has been completed. It is a magnificent realization, with gardens and lawns and three new park piers for fishing, strolling and sunbathing that could well redefine, nationwide, what waterfront parks can be.'b'But there is trouble in parkland, and as usual it involves money. Including the Greenwich Village section, only half of the park has been built or assured -- some sections between 42nd Street and 59th Street are nearing completion and some financing is in place for a stretch in Chelsea. But the original $200 million pledged by the city and state is nearly exhausted. Unless new money is provided expeditiously, valuable momentum will be lost and large stretches of riverfront will remain in their decayed state for years.'b'There are two obvious sources of new financing. The City Council has approved $31 million that the Hudson River Park Trust, the agency in charge of design and construction, plans to spend on the Chelsea section. But Mayor Michael Bloomberg has said that he will not release the money until the state matches it -- a reasonable enough position, since this has always been a 50-50 deal. Surely Gov. George Pataki -- who publicly recommitted himself to the project in a speech last November -- can find $31 million, or a chunk of it, in a budget that is likely to exceed $100 billion.'b'The other source is the roughly $850 million that remains of the federal funds made available for the reconstruction of Lower Manhattan in the wake of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Two years ago, the park trust applied to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation for $70 million of that money to build a mile-long section of the park south from Houston Street to Battery Park City at the tip of the island.'b'That would be an entirely appropriate use of the money because the proposed parklands are adjacent to the neighborhoods most affected by 9/11 and would provide downtown residents with open space at a time when they will be buffeted by new construction on all sides.'b'On this score, Mr. Pataki has been strongly supportive, although he has not specifically committed himself to the $70 million. Mr. Bloomberg has been coy. His aides keep saying privately that the Trust will get the money, but the Mayor has been silent. For its part, the corporation supports the concept and John C. Whitehead, its chairman, is an enthusiast. But the corporation is also being lobbied by other claimants and will not act without the joint consent of the governor and the mayor.'b'This worthy and remarkably cost-effective project deserves their unambiguous support and the modest financing it needs to see it through.'b'As it turns out, an important moment in the annals of modern culture may have occurred when Jon Stewart of Comedy Central went on CNN\'s "Crossfire" last October and decided to be serious. He told Paul Begala, on the left, and Tucker Carlson, on the right, that their show, which specializes in encouraging midlevel political types to yell slogans at each other, was "partisan hackery" that was lowering the level of political discourse. At the time, he was widely denounced for failing to be funny.'b'But the fact that Mr. Stewart, a comedian, is perhaps the most influential political commentator on television is in itself a sign of the times, and it turns out he may be prescient about programming as well. Jonathan Klein, president of CNN, announced last week that he was canceling "Crossfire" and steering CNN back toward actual news.'b'Maybe this could be the start of something big. We have lived through a generation now in which television news operations grew more and more dependent on "talking heads" shows because they are inexpensive. Since conversation is not normally high-octane viewing, producers tried to raise the interest level by encouraging the guests to start yelling at one another. The Fox News network swept the decks when it combined the snarling heads with right-wing commentary. Soon, the all-news airwaves were awash with primal screams. People tuning in to hear how the election was going might very well have imagined they had clicked onto a pregame show for professional wrestling.'b'Perhaps this trend has gone as far as it can go. Mr. Stewart\'s "Daily Show," which is especially popular with young people, is a reminder that television was supposed to be a "cool" medium, best suited to people whose jugular veins aren\'t throbbing. And last month, when the tsunami hit Asia, viewers got a chance to notice what they were in danger of losing to talk TV. CNN, with a comparatively large international army of journalists at its disposal, went out and covered the story. Fox News and MSNBC had to depend more on conversationalists in the studio, all of whom agreed that tidal waves were very, very bad.'b"Tourists at Sing Sing -- now there's an idea. The county executive, Andrew J. Spano, floated it this week in a letter to the Empire State Development Corporation. He wants to create a museum at the maximum-security state prison in Ossining, so visitors can take a ferry up the river to the Big House, see the old electric chair where Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and Albert Fish, the serial killer-cannibal, met their fates, and wallow in the 1920's romance of the place. Like Alcatraz in San Francisco, Sing Sing in Westchester could be a cash machine, pulling in, by Mr. Spano's estimate, $20.5 million a year."b"It's a wonder no one thought of it before."b"Well, some people have. Visiting Sing Sing is a tradition that dates to the late 1800's, when tourists lined up to stare through peepholes in the prison walls. In the 1920's, the prison drew more than 3,000 people a day. Local officials and residents of Ossining drew up plans for a museum a few years ago, but the project has not raised enough money to fly."b'No offense to the citizens of Ossining, but this has all the markings of a truly bad idea.'b"Why so, when historic prisons are such a draw in San Francisco, Dublin and London? Could it be because Sing Sing, unlike those other places, is still a prison? Because more than 1,700 inmates and about 650 guards are there on any given day? Because the place tourists would want to see -- the historic cellblock built by inmates in 1825 -- is within the prison walls, posing an interesting security challenge? And, finally, because there is something repellent and cruel about cashing in on the lurid impulses of throngs of people with Slurpees and fanny packs, no matter what precautions are taken to keep them from gawking at real live inmates? The Spano news release makes much of the fact that tourists flocked to Sing Sing in the 1920's. They did, but back then they also formed big crowds at community lynchings and freak shows."b'Still, as Mr. Spano points out, there is big money to be made. Maybe these are manageable objections. Maybe visitors could resolve the queasy moral issues by filling out a release form:'b'"I, the undersigned, am aware that I am visiting a working, maximum-security, men-only state prison, home to murderers, child molesters, forgers, bank robbers, most of them violent, some mentally ill, many the products of a dehumanizing criminal-justice system marred by inadequate drug treatment and psychiatric care. Men are raped and beaten here, but I\'ll try not to think about it."'b"The Ossining town supervisor, John Chervokas, has been thinking about a Sing Sing museum for years, and says he is well aware of the problem of sensationalism. He envisions a modest, respectful place that instructs visitors about the long and flawed history of American penology, and does little to satisfy lurid tastes. He says that nobody in Mr. Spano's administration contacted him about last week's news release. For the sake of keeping this plan within the boundaries of the humane and sensible, someone should."b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'WASHINGTON - The president prides himself on being a pig-headed guy. He is determined to win in Iraq even if he is not winning in Iraq.'b'So get ready for a Mohammedan mountain of spin defining victory down. Come what may -- civil war over oil, Iranian-style fatwas du jour or men on prayer rugs reciting the Koran all day on the Iraqi TV network our own geniuses created -- this administration will call it a triumph.'b'Even for a White House steeped in hooey, it\'s a challenge. President Bush will have to emulate the parsing and prevaricating he disdained in his predecessor: It depends on what the meaning of the word "win" is.'b"The president's still got a paper bag over his head, claiming that the daily horrors out of Iraq reflect just a few soreheads standing in the way of a glorious democracy, even though his commander of ground forces there concedes that the areas where more than half of Iraqis live are not secure enough for them to vote -- an acknowledgment that the insurgency is resilient and growing. It's like saying Montana and North Dakota are safe to vote, but New York, Philadelphia and L.A. are not. What's a little disenfranchisement among friends?"b'"I know it\'s hard, but it\'s hard for a reason," Mr. Bush said on Friday, a day after seven G.I.\'s and two marines died. "And the reason it\'s hard is because there are a handful of folks who fear freedom." If it\'s just a handful, how come it\'s so hard?'b'Then the president added: "And I look at the elections as a -- as a -- you know, as a -- as -- as a historical marker for our Iraq policy."'b"Well, that's clear. Mr. Bush is huddled in his bubble, but he's in a pickle. The administration that had no plan for what to do with Iraq when it got it, now has no plan for getting out."b"The mood in Washington about our misadventure seemed to grow darker last week, maybe because lawmakers were back after visiting with their increasingly worried constituents and -- even more alarming -- visiting Iraq, where you still can't drive from the Baghdad airport to the Green Zone without fearing for your life."b'"It\'s going to be ugly," Joe Biden told Charlie Rose about the election.'b'The arrogant Bush war council never admits a mistake. Paul Wolfowitz, a walking mistake, said on Friday he\'s been asked to remain in the administration. But the "idealists," as the myopic dunderheads think of themselves, are obviously worried enough, now that Mr. Bush is safely re-elected, to let a little reality seep in. Rummy tapped a respected retired four-star general to go to Iraq this week for an open-ended review of the entire military meshugas.'b"Mr. Wolfowitz, who devised the debacle in Iraq, is kept on, while Brent Scowcroft, Poppy Bush's lieutenant who warned Junior not to go into Iraq, is pushed out as chairman of the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. That's the backward nature of this beast: Deceive, you're golden; tell the truth, you're gone."b'Mr. Scowcroft was not deterred. Like Banquo\'s ghost, he clanked around last week, disputing the president\'s absurdly sunny forecasts for Iraq, and noting dryly that this administration had turned the word "realist" into a "pejorative." He predicted that the elections "have the great potential for deepening the conflict" by exacerbating the divisions between Shiite and Sunni Muslims. He worried that there would be "an incipient civil war," and said the best chance for the U.S. to avoid anarchy was to turn over the operation to the less inflammatory U.N. or NATO.'b'Mr. Scowcroft appeared at the New America Foundation with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Jimmy Carter\'s national security adviser, who declared the Iraq war a moral, political and military failure. If we can\'t send 500,000 troops, spend $500 billion and agree to resume the draft, then the conflict should be "terminated," he said, adding that far from the Jeffersonian democracy Mr. Bush extols, the most we can hope for is a Shiite-controlled theocracy.'b"The Iraqi election that was meant to be the solution to the problem -- like the installation of a new Iraqi government and the transfer of sovereignty and all the other steps that were supposed to make things better -- may actually be making things worse. The election is going to expand the control of the Shiite theocrats, even beyond what their numbers would entitle them to have, because of the way the Bush team has set it up and the danger that if you're a Sunni, the vote you cast may be your last."b'It is a lesson never learned: Matters of state and the heart that start with a lie rarely end well.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b"Correction:  January 11, 2005, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Friday about an American military commander's appraisal of security for elections to be held in Iraq on Jan. 30 misstated the portion of Iraq's population that lives in the four provinces he deemed unsafe for voting. (The error was repeated on Sunday in an Op-Ed column by Maureen Dowd.) The portion is 42.5 percent, not more than half."b'A chart with the article on Friday employed outdated population statistics. The number of people in the 14 provinces considered safe for voting totals 16.1 million, not 12.7 million; the number in the unsafe provinces total 11.9 million, not 9.4 million.'b"Greenburgh, N.Y. - ALL across New York, in calm and angry voices, people have concluded that Albany no longer functions in their interest. The keenest criticism has been directed at the Legislature's processes (or lack thereof). The problem, however, is more fundamental: Albany's gridlock -- especially its annual budget-bill gridlock. And now only a constitutional amendment or a constitutional convention can put state government back to work."b"The urgent need for constitutional clarity stems from Gov. George E. Pataki's decision to radically change the way budgets are submitted to the Legislature, giving him unique and unchecked power over state policy."b'Previously, the Legislature received two kinds of budget bills. The first were appropriation bills, which contained the actual amount of money to be spent and the broad purpose of the expenditure. These bills could not be altered by the Legislature. They were accompanied by a second type of bill that set the policies and conditions governing the expenditure, and that could be changed. For example, previous governors would submit an appropriation bill for education that set the amount to be spent, and a second bill that laid out the formula dividing the money among the hundreds of districts around the state. The Legislature had limited power over the appropriation but could, and did, change the formula when it disagreed with the governor.'b"In 2001, Governor Pataki found a constitutional loophole and changed that, submitting only one bill that contained both the appropriation and the formula. He argued that the Legislature could no longer amend the bill to change the formula, it could only accept the governor's package or reject it, thus tying the Legislature's hands and leaving him with almost unlimited power over the budget."b"Most New Yorkers believe it is the governor's job to propose a budget, and the Legislature's job to accept, reject or amend it. If the governor doesn't like those amendments, he can veto, and the Legislature, in turn, can try to override that veto. That's basic civics. It's what we teach our children about what makes a democracy. Now, our governor has nearly dictatorial powers, and members of the Assembly and Senate have only two choices: either rubber-stamp his budget or shut down the government."b'In mid-December, the state\'s highest court, in three sharply divided opinions, approved this new system of presenting appropriations bills. Even Judge Robert S. Smith, who strongly sided with the governor, recognized the crisis the decision has provoked when he wrote, "We recognize that the governor\'s power to originate appropriation bills is susceptible to abuse." Chief Justice Judith S. Kaye, in her dissent, saw it even more clearly: "The Legislature loses its ability to legislate in any area directly or indirectly relating to an appropriation. That is a distortion of the constitutional scheme of executive budgeting."'b"In America, governors propose, but legislatures check them and set society's basic direction. The result of this reversal of our traditional democratic process will have real consequences for schools, health care and the social issues that matter to so many. It means more Albany stalemate: New York's Legislature won't -- and shouldn't -- surrender its basic power over state policy. And the governor will insist on his overwhelming new powers."b"Only a constitutional amendment that explicitly restores the Legislature's right to amend the governor's budget proposals can repair the damage. There are two ways to do it. The preferable and focused way is to have two consecutive Legislatures pass an individual amendment to the Constitution that restores the Legislature's power to amend the governor's budget, and is then ratified by popular vote in a referendum."b"The second method is to call a constitutional convention. This is more cumbersome and puts at risk parts of the Constitution that are working well and shouldn't be changed. But nevertheless, Governor Pataki should join the bipartisan call for a constitutional convention, which could also consider more far-reaching -- and much-needed -- changes in campaign finance, education and health care."b'Either method is preferable to the unpalatable alternatives of overwhelming executive power or state-government stalemate.'b'The movement toward change is powerful. But fixing Albany will take more than slogans. The traditional balance between executives and legislatures that works everywhere in America must be revived in Albany. We need to reject the radical restructuring of our Constitution and let Albany get back to its primary job of helping New Yorkers improve their lives and communities.'b"Op-Ed Contributor Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky represents New York's 92nd District."b"Now that the holidays are over, we find ourselves wondering what the happy owners of new computers and televisions did with their old models. This is not idle curiosity. Unless these electronic devices are redeployed as coffee tables, they might wind up as trash on the streets of New York. That is not illegal -- although it should be. E-waste, as it is known, is toxic. It is also the next big challenge in managing the city's mountain of garbage."b'A computer monitor or TV can contain seven pounds of lead, buried beneath the screen. Usually there are various amounts of two other heavy metals, mercury and cadmium, in the cathode ray tube or in components like circuit boards. Cellphone batteries contain some of the same pollutants.'b'Many discarded electronic devices end up with the regular trash at an incinerator in New Jersey, where they can produce toxic fumes. Or they are taken to a landfill, where pollutants leach into the soil. Within two years, there may be 500 million obsolete computers in the United States, many of them here. Add to that the televisions orphaned with the proliferation of flat-screen models, and you begin to get the picture.'b"The city has addressed the problem in a limited way, by, for example, sponsoring recycling events with equipment makers Dell and Lexmark. One event on Staten Island last fall retrieved five tons of electronics. But by one estimate, there are more than 75,000 tons of personal computers discarded yearly in the city and that doesn't count those stored by owners who would like to get rid of them. A bigger push is needed. Mayor Michael Bloomberg seemed to acknowledge that when he called for an initiative for electronics recycling in his solid waste management plan last year, a good first step, especially coming on the heels of the example the mayor has set on other recyclables. His decision to restore programs to recycle glass, plastics and metals was good for both the environment and the economy."b'The City Council is taking its own lead on e-waste and is working on recycling legislation that may call on the Department of Sanitation to schedule several special pickup days for electronics. That promises to be a useful element in a wider solution.'b"New York can learn what not to do by studying California's struggles with an e-waste recycling program, which it finances with an upfront fee of as much as $10 on the purchase of televisions, PC's and other devices. The program has created a whole new bureaucracy and a process so inconvenient it may be discouraging participation."b'A better approach may be to hold manufacturers responsible for the products they produce. Some companies do have programs to take back computers, although they charge the consumer. Maine -- taking a cue from European countries and Canada -- requires municipalities to help collect the items for delivery to a consolidator, who manages the recycling and bills the manufacturers. Besides providing a way to keep poisons from the air, soil and water, this system might also encourage a more intelligent and less toxic design of our machines.'b"E-waste deserves urgent attention. In the meantime, New Yorkers need to do their part and resist the urge to just dump stuff on the street. We recommend that consumers explore recycling options. One way is to go to www.nycwasteless.org and examine its lists of manufacturers' take-back programs for old computers."b'After Saddam Hussein seized neighboring Kuwait in 1990, the historian David Fromkin published an essay in the Smithsonian journal recalling how the modern Middle East was formed, in which he wrote: "In 1922, Churchill succeeded in mapping out the Arab Middle East along lines suitable to the needs of the British civilian and military administrations. T.E. Lawrence ["Lawrence of Arabia"] would later brag that he, Churchill and a few others had designed the modern Middle East over dinner. Seventy years later the question is whether the peoples of the Middle East are willing or able to continue living with that design."'b'That same question is still on the table today -- but even more so. What is happening right now in Iraq, Israel and Palestine is a new Churchillian moment. The contours and contents of these core Middle East regions are up for grabs, only this time these contours are not being redrawn by an imperial pen from above -- and will not be. This time they are being shaped by three civilian conflicts bubbling up from below -- among Palestinians, Israelis and Iraqis. As the Israeli political theorist Yaron Ezrahi puts it, "Three volcanoes are erupting at the same time. Lava is pouring out of each of them, and we are all waiting to see how it cools and into what forms."'b'Like the recent tsunami, this sort of tectonic movement of geopolitical plates happens only once a century. This is a remarkable political moment that you don\'t want to miss or see go badly. But that\'s what\'s scary; when borders and states emerge from volcanic activity, anything can happen. What all three of these cases have in common is that they pit theocratic, fascist and messianic forces on one side, claiming to be acting on the will of God or in the name of the primordial aspirations of "the nation," against more moderate, tolerant, democratizing majorities.'b"In Israel the theocratic-nationalist settler movement has already begun to make its move. Last Thursday, four battalion commanders and 30 other officers, all residents of West Bank Jewish settlements, published a statement in the Israeli daily Yediot Aharonot, declaring that they would not obey any orders to evacuate Jewish enclaves in Gaza or the West Bank. This is an open rebuke of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's cabinet-approved plan to withdraw all Israeli forces and settlements from Gaza and a small part of the West Bank."b'The Israeli daily Haaretz also reported that the main council of West Bank and Gaza rabbis issued a statement Thursday urging all Israeli soldiers to openly defy the state and declare their opposition to the disengagement plan, saying: "The order to dismantle settlements goes against the laws of the Torah and human morality. One should not assist this act." The Haaretz columnist Akiva Eldar reported that thousands of Jewish zealots -- and Christians, too -- are waiting in the United States for the call to join the struggle alongside the settlers in Gaza.'b'Sound familiar? It should. The week before, the Muslim militant group Ansar al-Sunna in Iraq called for all Iraqi Muslims to boycott Iraq\'s voting booths, decrying them as "centers of atheism," and added the warning that "the Mujahedeen will be attacking polling stations." Hamas and Islamic Jihad are boycotting today\'s Palestinian election, just as the main Sunni political movement in Iraq, the Iraqi Islamic Party, has vowed to do there. Osama bin Laden, for his part, declared that the laws of Iraq are "infidel" laws, and "therefore everyone who participates in this election will be considered infidels."'b'I do not believe that these militant messianists can actually win in Iraq, Israel or Palestine, but they can prevent the majorities in each country from forging any new pragmatic, tolerant power-sharing arrangements -- and in the case of Israelis and Palestinians, new borders. Mr. Sharon is the strongest prime minister Israel could have right now, but even he is having problems pulling off this self-amputation of the Gaza Strip.'b'The contours of the Middle East in the 21st century are at stake here, much as they were in 1922. If the pragmatic forces can dominate in Israel, Iraq and Palestine, it will establish positive examples that will give others in the region the incentive and confidence to try to emulate them. If all three remain roiling volcanoes, slowly devouring themselves, the social contract among Jews that the state of Israel was built upon will start to come unstuck, and Iraq and Palestine will be held up as exhibits A and B for the case that in the Arab world, states can only be stabilized by despotism, never democracy.'b'Suffolk County has a problem with ambulance service. At least we think it does. Its system, if you can call it that, is unusual in the United States for a county its size: a patchwork quilt of volunteers in 99 separate and independent jurisdictions who respond to emergency calls whenever they are available.'b'When they are not -- as sometimes happens with men and women who have full-time jobs, families and other responsibilities -- emergency dispatchers bounce calls from one nearby community to another until a crew can be assembled.'b"That takes time. Sometimes, tragically, far too many minutes pass before a volunteer corps arrives at the scene of an accident or medical crisis. New York State records show that the average ambulance response time in Suffolk is several minutes slower than in Nassau and Westchester Counties. Whether that stems from balkanized emergency services, Suffolk's sheer size, its bad traffic, a reliance on primitive pencil-and-paper methods of receiving 911 calls or some combination of all of these factors, no one is really sure."b'The reason, according to paramedics and county emergency officials, is that there is no comprehensive source of data on emergency calls to help the county determine how well the system works, where it is failing and how to make it better. Ambulance crews keep records of the calls they get from dispatchers, which are reported to New York State, analyzed, and released four or five years later. But compiling meaningfully accurate data on response times requires seeing the logs of local dispatchers, who are the first ones who get the stricken phone calls. These dispatchers are not obligated to share their records with anyone.'b"A Suffolk County legislator, David Bishop of Babylon, wants to do better. He submitted a bill in the last session of the county Legislature that would impose uniform standards of record keeping on every emergency call. Dispatchers would log the data on response times, which could then be assembled and submitted to computer analysis, in the same way that police departments examine crime statistics to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement. The bill was killed out of fear that information thus gained could increase the county's exposure to lawsuits and somehow jeopardize the all-volunteer system."b"Detailed emergency response data from all the county's volunteer ambulance districts may reveal flaws, inefficiencies and embarrassments. But the information will certainly be instructive, and is likely to help save lives."b"That is all the reason needed for the Legislature to revive and pass Mr. Bishop's bill in the coming weeks. Where there is information, there is accountability. In matters of life and death, the people of Suffolk deserve nothing less."b"The assembly line of carnage in George W. Bush's war in Iraq continues unabated. Nightmares don't last this long, so the death and destruction must be real. You know you're in serious trouble when the politicians and the military brass don't even bother suggesting that there's light at the end of the tunnel. The only thing ahead is a deep and murderous darkness."b'With the insurgency becoming both stronger and bolder, and the chances of conducting a legitimate election growing grimmer by the day, a genuine sense of alarm can actually be detected in the reality-resistant hierarchy of the Bush administration.'b'The unthinkable is getting a tentative purchase in the minds of the staunchest supporters of the war: that under the current circumstances, and given existing troop strengths, the U.S. and its Iraqi allies may not be able to prevail. Military officials are routinely talking about a major U.S. presence in Iraq that will last, at a minimum, into the next decade. That is not what most Americans believed when the Bush crowd so enthusiastically sold this war as a noble adventure that would be short and sweet, and would end with Iraqis tossing garlands of flowers at American troops.'b'The reality, of course, is that this war is like all wars -- fearsomely brutal and tragic. The administration was jolted into the realization of just how badly the war was going by the brazen suicide bombing just a few days before Christmas inside a mess tent of a large and supposedly heavily fortified military base in Mosul. Fourteen American soldiers and four American contractors were among the dead.'b'Seven American soldiers were killed last Thursday when their Bradley armored personnel carrier hit a roadside bomb in northwestern Baghdad. Two U.S. marines were killed the same day in Anbar.'b'Brig. Gen. David Rodriguez told reporters at the Pentagon on Friday of an ominous new development in Iraq. "We\'ve noticed in the recent couple of weeks," he said, "that the I.E.D.\'s [improvised explosive devices] are all being built more powerfully, with more explosive effort in a smaller number of I.E.D.\'s."'b"Mr. Bush's so-called pre-emptive war, which has already cost so many lives, is being enveloped by the foul and unmistakable odor of failure. That's why the Pentagon is dispatching a retired four-star general, Gary Luck, to Iraq to assess the entire wretched operation. The hope in Washington is that he will pull a rabbit out of a hat. His mission is to review the military's entire Iraq policy, and do it quickly."b'I hope, as he is touring the regions in which the U.S. is still using conventional tactics against a guerrilla foe, that he keeps in mind how difficult it is to defeat local insurgencies, and other indigenous forces, as exemplified by such widely varying historical examples as the French experiences in Indochina and Algeria, the American experience in Vietnam, the Israeli experience in Lebanon, and so on.'b'But even the fortuitously named General Luck will be helpless to straighten anything out in time for the Iraqi elections. The commander of American ground forces in Iraq, Lt. Gen. Thomas Metz, made it clear last week that significant areas of four major provinces, which together contain nearly half the population of the entire country, are not safe enough for people to vote.'b'"Today I would not be in much shape to hold elections in those provinces," said General Metz.'b'With the war draining the military of the troops needed for commitments worldwide, the Pentagon is being forced to take extraordinary steps to maintain adequate troop strength. A temporary increase of 30,000 soldiers for the Army, already approved by Congress, will most likely be made permanent. The Pentagon is also considering plans to further change the rules about mobilizing members of the National Guard and Reserve. Right now they cannot be called up for more than 24 months of active service. That limit would be scrapped, which would permit the Army to call them up as frequently as required.'b"That's not a back-door draft. It's a brutal, in-your-face draft that's unfairly limited to a small segment of the population. It would make a mockery of the idea of an all-volunteer Army."b"Something's got to give. The nation's locked in a war that's going badly. The military is strained to the breaking point. And it's looking more and more like the amateur hour in the places that are supposed to provide leadership in perilous times -- the Pentagon and the White House."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"In the push to shove New York State's Legislature into the daylight, a little progress could be made today in Albany. To open their new session, both the State Senate and the Assembly are expected to agree on new rules to legislate by. And on a scale of 1 to 10, the Assembly's proposed rule changes deserve a 6.5, maybe even a 7. We would be hard pressed to award the Senate anything above a 3."b'At the top of the Assembly\'s list is an end to ghost voting. Until now, legislators could swipe a card and be assured that a machine would automatically cast a "yes" vote for them on every question, even if they were out shopping at the mall. With this change in rules, lawmakers will now have to punch a button and have a vote recorded on each bill.'b'Even better, Assembly members want to encourage C-Span or some other television outlet to cover all this public debate. While some fear a little grandstanding, Albany could use a little public grandstanding. And the next step for the Assembly -- one sadly missing from the new proposals -- should be to give more muscle to the committees in this house.'b"The Senate's proposal, released in a very preliminary form, appears to do little. Joseph Bruno, the Senate majority leader, has said that he wants to follow the Assembly real-voting system, but that first he needs to buy the electronic voting equipment. To save the embarrassment of being outshone by the Assembly, Mr. Bruno should have resorted to an old-fashioned hand count until the technology arrived. We can only hope that Mr. Bruno stands by his promise that this is only a start to rules reform, not a conclusion."b"Maybe the real key here is that the Assembly Democrats seem to have worked with the Republican minority on the rule changes. On the Senate side, the minority Democrats are out in the cold. It's time both Senate parties sat down together and created rules at least as good as the Assembly's or, preferably, even better."b"BANJUL, Gambia - TWENTY-FIVE years of dictatorship and civil war, preceded by a century and a half of misrule, have made Liberia one of the world's poorest countries. But Liberia's development failures have paradoxically led to a success. Liberia has something that the world values now more than ever: a vast rain forest."b"Liberia's status as a republic with strong ties to the United States kept out European colonizers, so no Western power came in to slice rails and roads into the interior. Nature flourished in splendid isolation, and today more than a third of the country is virgin rain forest, one of the largest proportions of any nation. A Garden of Eden bloomed around the hamlets where I worked: colobus monkeys crashed through the jungle canopy, pygmy hippos tobogganed into rivers, and sometimes the only roads through the forest were those blazed by elephants. Conservation International says that Liberia is the linchpin of West Africa's Upper Guinean forest, which is believed to shelter the highest mammal species diversity of any region in the world."b"It's not just tree-huggers who want to save the Liberian rain forest; nearly all first-world governments have made conserving the last great rain forests on earth a priority. The Liberian forest serves us all: it mitigates global warming; it harbors vulnerable species like the Mount Nimba viviparous toad and zebra duiker; it could be the source of new medicines; and it provides aesthetic and spiritual well-being."b'Economics 101 is also at play here. As the supply of pristine rain forests declines (conservation groups estimate that the world loses an acre every two seconds) and the demand for what they provide increases, their value increases. Liberia should capitalize on its ecological wealth by exchanging something the world needs for something Liberians desperately want: stability.'b'It would be a sort of Peace for Nature swap, based on the Debt for Nature model in which third world countries receive debt relief for conserving their natural heritage. Under Peace for Nature, Liberia would convert a significant part of itself into a United Nations biosphere reserve, zoned for both strict preservation and multiple use.'b"In return, the world would commit to a sustainable, lasting Liberian peace instead of the usual Band-Aid approach. This means a full 20 years, long enough to establish a habit of peace and to educate a new Liberian generation. We would ensure security through the United Nations, meanwhile training Liberians to do the job themselves, including retooling former fighters as park guards. We would also help bring electricity and piped water to their capital, Monrovia, and a few interior towns. Liberia's potential for ecotourism and certified timber production will be fulfilled over time, as its image transforms from red (blood diamonds) to green (rain forests)."b'Alternatively, Liberia faces one of two other possible futures, neither rosy.'b"The first is the status quo, which has Liberia headed for political collapse. True, the United Nations mission in Liberia has disarmed combatants; but the world still spends a thousand times more each day for war in Iraq than peace in Liberia. And while it's refreshing to drive across a Monrovia patrolled by grinning Ukrainians in blue helmets instead of the gun-toting children used by the ousted president, Charles Taylor, this lull is transient; interest will fade as other conflicts ignite and the world prematurely pulls out the United Nations tanks. When that day comes, anarchy could return to Liberia, and it could become a breeding ground for the next generation of terrorists."b'A second possibility is that the impoverished nation would try to keep itself afloat by selling its principal asset to multinational companies, auctioning timber concessions for rapid clear-cutting (a job Charles Taylor started). Profits are quickly racked up and sent offshore, and Liberia finds itself a barren land.'b'Peace for Nature is an idea in keeping with the history of Liberia, whose very existence is a result of a deal struck in the United States between early 19th-century Northern liberals who yearned to help freed slaves go home and Southern conservatives who simply wanted them out of sight.'b'Today, the greening of Liberia is both liberal (help starving Liberian children; heal the earth) and conservative (reduce global warming cheaply; control anarchic zones that foster terrorism). President James Monroe christened Liberia "a little America, destined to shine gem-like in the heart of darkest Africa." If Monroe\'s language is anachronistic, his optimism is not; what we have spawned, we can help renew.'b'Luckily, President Bush likes Liberia, and the feeling is mutual. It\'s not just that Liberians love America, which they certainly do. (They cling firmly to their red, white and blue flag; their national dance, "the Dixie square dance"; and a Constitution written at Harvard and codified at Cornell.) They adore Mr. Bush because he stood up for them. I heard the story a dozen times from earnest Liberians on my recent visit there: with Marine helicopters thwacking over Monrovia in 2003, Mr. Bush warned that Charles Taylor must leave Liberia now, and I mean now. Mr. Taylor left for Nigeria, and is now, thankfully, a non-factor.'b"A challenge of Mr. Bush's second term is to move beyond chasing tyrants to developing a foreign policy that's both creatively compassionate and conservative. Why not start with a green quid pro quo for Liberia?"b'Op-Ed Contributor William Powers, who directed aid projects in Liberia from 1999 to 2001, is the author of "Blue Clay People: Seasons on Africa\'s Fragile Edge."'b"Late February is now the time frame mentioned by the White House for unveiling President Bush's plan to privatize Social Security. The timing is no accident. By waiting until then, the president will conveniently avoid having to include the cost of privatization -- as much as $2 trillion in new government borrowing over the next 10 years -- in his 2006 budget, expected in early February."b'In this and other ways, the administration is manipulating information -- a tacit, yet devastating, acknowledgement, we believe, that an informed public would reject privatizing Social Security. For the record:'b'The administration has suggested that it would be justified in borrowing some $2 trillion to establish private accounts because doing so would head off $10 trillion in future Social Security liabilities. It\'s bad enough that the $10 trillion is a highly inflated figure, intended to overstate a problem that is reasonably estimated at $3.7 trillion or even considerably less. Worse are the true dimensions of the administration\'s proposed ploy, which were made painfully clear in a memo that was leaked to the press last week. Written in early January by Peter Wehner, the president\'s director of strategic initiatives and a top aide to Karl Rove, the president\'s political strategist, the memo states unequivocally that under a privatized system, only drastic benefit cuts -- not borrowing -- would relieve Social Security\'s financial problem. "If we borrow $1-2 trillion to cover transition costs for personal savings accounts" without making benefit cuts, Mr. Wehner wrote, "we will have borrowed trillions and will still confront more than $10 trillion in unfunded liabilities. This could easily cause an economic chain reaction: the markets go south, interest rates go up, and the economy stalls out."'b'At a recent press conference, Mr. Bush exaggerated the timing of the system\'s shortfall by saying that Social Security would cross the "line into red" in 2018. According to Congress\'s budget agency, the system comes up short in 2052; according to the system\'s trustees, the date is 2042. The year 2018 is when the system\'s trustees expect they will have to begin dipping into the Social Security trust fund to pay full benefits. If you had a trust fund to pay your bills when your income fell short, would you consider yourself insolvent?'b"In suggesting that 2018 is doomsyear, the president is reinforcing a false impression that the trust fund is a worthless pile of I.O.U.'s -- as detractors of Social Security so often claim. The facts are different: since 1983, payroll taxes have exceeded benefits, with the excess tax revenue invested in interest-bearing Treasury securities. (An alternative would be to, say, put the money in a mattress.) That accumulating interest and the securities themselves make up the Social Security trust fund. If the trust fund's Treasury securities are worthless, someone better tell investors throughout the world, who currently hold $4.3 trillion in Treasury debt that carries the exact same government obligation to pay as the trust fund securities. The president is irresponsible to even imply that the United States might not honor its debt obligations."b'Mr. Bush\'s reason for ignoring the far more pressing problem of Medicare while he pursues Social Security privatization is especially tortured. Over the next 75 years, the mismatch between revenues and Medicare benefits for doctors\' care and prescription drugs is 3.5 to 6 times as much as the shortfall in Social Security, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. The Medicare hospital trust fund mismatch is two to three times as big. Asked by a reporter last month why he wouldn\'t tackle Medicare first, Mr. Bush said that his administration had already taken on Medicare by pushing through the $500 billion-plus prescription drug benefit. Drug coverage, he said, would save money for Medicare by paying for medicine that would prevent the need for expensive heart surgery. "I recognize some of the actuaries haven\'t come to that conclusion yet," he said. "But the logic is irrefutable."'b"Logic? That thinking is wishful to the point of being magical. Medicare is not going to fix itself any more than tax cuts will pay for themselves. And Social Security is not a crisis for which enormous borrowing, huge benefit cuts and risky private accounts are a solution. Rather, it's a financial problem of manageable proportions, solvable without new borrowing by a combination of modest benefit cuts and tax increases that could be distributed fairly and phased in over several decades, while guaranteeing a basic level of inflation-proof income for life."b'It appears that the president and his aides are trying to sow ignorance to gain support for their flawed privatization agenda. Lawmakers, policy makers and the American people have to let the administration know that they know better.'b"Kofi Annan has two problems -- the Bush administration's continuing annoyance with the United Nations and the organization's actual, pressing problems in fulfilling its key missions. In a perfect world, Washington would encourage Mr. Annan to focus on the second and work with him later on the first, but the U.N. exists in a highly imperfect world."b"So, the secretary general is doing the right thing by planning additional management changes beyond his announcement that his retiring chief of staff would be replaced by a dynamic specialist on development and public communications. Further changes are certainly warranted, as is the newly announced tracking system for tsunami relief. But the housecleaning should not just be aimed at appeasing Washington and improving the United Nations' public image. Major shakeups are needed in critical areas like peacekeeping and refugee assistance."b'It is no secret that a re-elected Bush administration would like to force out several highly competent officials who have disagreed with it over Iraq or other sensitive issues. Some may have to go, however unfairly, since the United Nations cannot do its very necessary work -- from helping tsunami victims to delivering on the promise of real help for the billions trapped in absolute poverty -- without at least minimal cooperation from Washington.'b"But helping the poor and the desperate also demands strengthening the management of peacekeeping operations. Some kind of appalling nadir was reached last month with reports that members of an international contingent of U.N. peacekeepers in Congo had been raping the young girls they had been sent to protect. Mr. Annan and his staff must spare no effort to see that these crimes are prosecuted and punished. Further steps must be taken so that adequately armed and trained troops are quickly available to back up truce agreements in the world's multiplying trouble spots. The peacekeeping department's current head, Jean-Marie Gu\xc3\xa9henno, is generally considered up to the job, but he has not been given enough money or staff."b'Sweeping changes are also needed at the United Nations refugee agency that is responsible for protecting the interests of some 17 million people worldwide who have been forced from their homes by armed conflict or fear of persecution. Not only has the current high commissioner, Ruud Lubbers, performed uninspiringly, but his relations with his staff have been embittered by a charge of sexual harassment. Although an internal U.N. investigation found some basis for these claims, the complainant withdrew formal charges and Mr. Lubbers says he intends to finish his term, which ends in December. He should be asked to leave now.'b"Given the unremitting hostility of the Bush administration, the U.N.'s survival as an effective organization cannot be taken for granted. Mr. Annan will have to challenge the self-protective bureaucracy more radically than it has ever been challenged. Improving public relations and smoothing political feathers in Washington will not be nearly enough."b'Washington - In the aftermath of a cataclysm, with pictures of parents sobbing over dead infants driven into human consciousness around the globe, faith-shaking questions arise: Where was God? Why does a good and all-powerful deity permit such evil and grief to fall on so many thousands of innocents? What did these people do to deserve such suffering?'b'After a similar natural disaster wiped out tens of thousands of lives in Lisbon in the 18th century, the philosopher Voltaire wrote "Candide," savagely satirizing optimists who still found comfort and hope in God. After last month\'s Indian Ocean tsunami, the same anguished questioning is in the minds of millions of religious believers.'b"Turn to the Book of Job in the Hebrew Bible. It was written some 2,500 years ago during what must have been a crisis of faith. The covenant with Abraham -- worship the one God, and his people would be protected -- didn't seem to be working. The good died young, the wicked prospered; where was the promised justice?"b'The poet-priest who wrote this book began with a dialogue between God and the Satan, then a kind of prosecuting angel. When God pointed to "my servant Job" as most upright and devout, the Satan suggested Job worshipped God only because he had been given power and riches. On a bet that Job would stay faithful, God let the angel take the good man\'s possessions, kill his children and afflict him with loathsome boils.'b"The first point the Book of Job made was that suffering is not evidence of sin. When Job's friends said that he must have done something awful to deserve such misery, the reader knows that is false. Job's suffering was a test of his faith: even as he grew angry with God for being unjust -- wishing he could sue him in a court of law -- he never abandoned his belief."b'And did this righteous Gentile get furious: "Damn the day that I was born!" Forget the so-called "patience of Job"; that legend is blown away by the shockingly irreverent biblical narrative. Job\'s famous expression of meek acceptance in the 1611 King James Version -- "though he slay me, yet will I trust in him" -- was a blatant misreading by nervous translators. Modern scholarship offers a much different translation: "He may slay me, I\'ll not quaver."'b'The point of Job\'s gutsy defiance of God\'s injustice -- right there in the Bible -- is that it is not blasphemous to challenge the highest authority when it inflicts a moral wrong. (I titled a book on this "The First Dissident.") Indeed, Job\'s demand that his unseen adversary show up at a trial with a written indictment gets an unexpected reaction: in a thunderous theophany, God appears before the startled man with the longest and most beautifully poetic speech attributed directly to him in Scripture.'b'Frankly, God\'s voice "out of the whirlwind" carries a message not all that satisfying to those wondering about moral mismanagement. Virginia Woolf wrote in her journal "I read the Book of Job last night -- I don\'t think God comes well out of it."'b'The powerful voice demands of puny Man: "Where were you when I laid the Earth\'s foundations?" Summoning an image of the mythic sea-monster symbolizing Chaos, God asks, "Canst thou draw out Leviathan with a hook?" The poet-priest\'s point, I think, is that God is occupied bringing light to darkness, imposing physical order on chaos, and leaves his human creations free to work out moral justice on their own.'b"Job's moral outrage caused God to appear, thereby demonstrating that the sufferer who believes is never alone. Job abruptly stops complaining, and -- in a prosaic happy ending that strikes me as tacked on by other sages so as to get the troublesome book accepted in the Hebrew canon -- he is rewarded. (Christianity promises to rectify earthly injustice in an afterlife.)"b"Job's lessons for today:"b'(1) Victims of this cataclysm in no way "deserved" a fate inflicted by the Leviathanic force of nature.'b"(2) Questioning God's inscrutable ways has its exemplar in the Bible and need not undermine faith."b"(3) Humanity's obligation to ameliorate injustice on earth is being expressed in a surge of generosity that refutes Voltaire's cynicism."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: safire@nytimes.com'b'"THIS little light of mine," is what I\'ve been thinking and humming these last few days, since the news rolled out of Philadelphia, Miss. Those words are the start of an old, honored Negro spiritual. In the civil rights 60\'s, the song was one of the anthems hymned from flatbeds and courthouse steps during voter registration drives.'b'Now, there is another start: Mississippi has brought its first-ever murder charges in a long-ago crime against three young men whose names are still mythical in America: Schwerner, Goodman, Chaney. It is a very late start, but it is a start all the same, a cause for uplift, it seems to me, for singing.'b"In a way, it's this little light of theirs. I refer here not so much to Michael Schwerner, Andrew Goodman or James Chaney, who are martyrs and heroes. Rather, I have in mind some people who have never been large in number, and whose names aren't mythical in America, but who have long believed and worked toward the idea that, someday, justice would pour down like waters in their own home state. Yes, they are Mississippians: journalists, lawyers, activists, librarians, citizens. Through these years of justice delayed, theirs has amounted to a kind of coalition of hope and belief."b'What I have come to learn about Mississippi is that everything there is always changing. And in another way, nothing there ever changes at all.'b'I am convinced that this case would not have been reopened, would not have come to light again without, for instance, the efforts of the Philadelphia Coalition (a multiracial organization that has urged the attorney general of Mississippi to prosecute cases from the 60\'s); without, for instance, enterprising work by reporters at The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson, Miss. During the civil rights era, The Clarion-Ledger practically led the state in its racist screeds against blacks, against the "agitators."'b'Schwerner, Goodman, Chaney: their lives ended on a summer night on a stretch of rural road outside a town whose name means brotherly love. A gang of men, some of whom were both Klan and local law, made the three of them get out of a blue Ford station wagon. "Are you that nigger-lover?" 24-year-old Mickey Schwerner of Pelham, N.Y., is said to have been asked. According to informers, he is said to have replied, as his voice and knees began to give, as one of the killer\'s hands rested lightly on his shoulder: "Sir, I know just how you feel." It was June 21, 1964.'b'Last Thursday, in Philadelphia, seat of Neshoba County, another moment in time: a grand jury indicted Edgar Ray Killen, 79, as a participant in those slayings. On Friday, Mr. Killen was arraigned -- and pleaded not guilty -- in the Neshoba County Courthouse. There may be other arrests and indictments forthcoming.'b'I have been to Philadelphia and to other Mississippi places. I have gone as a reporter, always the outsider. I suppose you could say all I wanted to know was this: What became of the people who did such things? Did they ever suffer shame? What moral calculations did they have to make just to get through a day?'b'In 1967, 18 Klansmen were prosecuted by the federal government on charges of "a conspiracy to violate the civil rights" of Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney. Seven were convicted. None served more than six years. Edgar Ray Killen, who preaches the word of God, was let go after a deadlock in his federal trial by an all-white jury. Mississippi itself never brought a single charge in the murders of the three slain men.'b'In the summer of 1984, on the 20th anniversary of the murders, I walked into a jewelry store on the Philadelphia town square, and there was Cecil R. Price, fixing watches. In 1964, he was the deputy sheriff of Neshoba, fond of chaw and cowboy hats and short-sleeved khaki. Price, who is dead now, served four years in a federal penitentiary in the north after being convicted of violating the civil rights of the victims for his role in the killings. And then he came on home, as they all had pretty much come on home.'b'He was standing behind the counter at City Jewelry. He waved as I entered. He had a beard and a big stomach. A magnifying glass was banded to his wide brow. I stuck out my hand and he took it. I later described this for my newspaper.'b'"Howdy, can I help ya?" he said. I told him what I was doing there: working on an article. In the way that water can turn to ice, he said: "Nope," adding that there was "nothing to say about that." He was already back to his jeweler\'s loupe. "Talk to some others. And do us a good job, hear?" As I turned to go, one of his buddies sidled in. "Well, Cee-cilll!" he cried from the doorway.'b'But this was four decades ago. Justice may now be pouring down at last. So let it shine, let it shine, this little light of theirs, those who have kept witness.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Paul Hendrickson, a former reporter for The Washington Post, is the author of "Sons of Mississippi: A Story of Race and Its Legacy."'b'Washington - BECAUSE of the cost of the war in Iraq and the mounting federal deficit, the Office of Management and Budget has ordered the Pentagon to make major budget cuts over the next six years. According to the Pentagon, these could come to more than $55 billion and will affect almost all major weapons programs. Like most reports about reductions in Pentagon spending, however, there is less to it than meets the eye.'b"First, the overall size of the Pentagon budget would not come down very much. A large amount of the money that is supposedly being cut is in fact only being transferred from the Air Force and Navy budgets to the Army's, which is scheduled to increase by $5 billion a year. The overall military budget will continue to rise; from 2006 through 2011, the Pentagon will still spend more than $2.5 trillion, not counting the costs of the war in Iraq, which now exceed $200 billion."b'Second, the proposed savings will take some time to translate into actual budget reductions. For example, in its 2006 budget, which will be sent to the Congress next month, the Pentagon plans to cut budget authority -- which includes spending, borrowing and contractual obligations -- by $5.9 billion. But because so much of that money was scheduled to be spent toward the end of the decade, the actual reduction in 2006 alone will be only about $1 billion. Most of the money that will be spent on new weapons next year has already been authorized by Congress.'b'Third, many of the reductions are not real cuts. For example, the Navy still plans to buy 30 Virginia-class nuclear submarines for some $60 billion, but rather than buying two a year for the next six years, as had been planned, the Pentagon will buy only one per year. This will "save" about $5.3 billion in the next six years, but simply pushes the cost to the following years.'b"The Pentagon is also slowing down the number of V-22 Osprey aircraft it will buy each year. This may save some money in total, but will push the eventual cost of this plane to more than $100 million each. Similarly, the national missile defense system will be restructured to save $5 billion over the next six years, but the total cost of the system remains unchanged. And the Pentagon proposes to add money to some programs: the Air Force's space-based radar program, for example, would receive an extra $600 million."b'Fourth, many of the proposed reductions will lead to the taxpayer getting less bang for the buck.Take, for example, the F/A-22 Raptor fighter jet. In 1985, the Air Force claimed that it could buy 750 of the planes for $35 million each. The Pentagon now plans to halt production in 2008, by which time it will have purchased about 180 planes, at a total cost of about $60 billion. In other words, each Raptor will cost more than $300 million, more than eight times the original estimate. (For this same $60 billion, the Air Force could have purchased about 1,000 of the more traditional F-16 fighters, which are equally as capable of meeting military needs in the post-cold-war world.)'b"Fifth, many of these proposed reductions are unlikely to take place. Under the plan, the Air Force will continue to purchase Raptors through the end of the second Bush administration. Will the next president support the decision to close the production line and put more than 2,000 people out of work in Georgia, whose two Republican senators are already on record as opposing the cancellation? Likewise, will Congress support the Pentagon's decision to cancel the LPD-17, a Marine amphibious ship, in 2008?"b"History says it won't. The Clinton administration, for example, did not stop production of the Seawolf submarine or the Osprey aircraft, which had been proposed by the departing administration of President George H.W. Bush."b'Are there any alternatives to this shell game? If the Pentagon were serious about spending, it could take several concrete steps now: canceling cold-war-era weapons systems like the F/A-22 fighter; dropping all contracts that involve money appropriated by Congress but which has not yet been spent; halting the deployment of the national missile defense system until it has been adequately tested; and terminating the much-criticized new contract to lease 100 refueling planes from Boeing.'b'We are facing a real budget crisis -- one brought on by the unwise decision to cut taxes in the midst of a war. Unfortunately, the steps that the Pentagon now proposes will not do much to deal with that crisis, either in the short or the long term.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Lawrence J. Korb, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, was assistant secretary of defense from 1981 to 1985.'b'Cambridge, Mass. - IN an effort to reduce the growth of the military budget, the Bush administration is poised to cut back a wide array of Pentagon programs, from jet fighters to a missile defense system. Pentagon leaders say the cuts will save more than $55 billion over six years.'b'Whether these reductions herald the end of the rapid rise in military spending that began in 1999, however, is open to question. While fewer weapons systems than planned will be purchased during the next six years, in financial terms, putting an end to the buildup will require cutting far more than what is now on the chopping block. One reason is that much of the recent rise in spending has been fueled not by new tanks or missiles, but by new costs associated with military personnel -- especially retirees. These costs amount to a permanent increase in the military budget. Unlike spending on equipment, they cannot be canceled or deferred.'b'Since the start of the buildup, the rising costs of military pay, retiree benefits, health care and family housing have greatly outstripped inflation and added more than $40 billion to annual Pentagon budgets, even though the number of active-duty troops has essentially stayed the same. Moreover, the annual costs continue to grow rapidly. The program reductions that are reported to be under consideration would not be enough to offset the growth in spending for military pay and benefits anticipated during the next several years. Even holding the increases in the military budget to the level of inflation would require tens of billions of dollars in annual reductions.'b'To the extent that added pay and benefits ensure the nation does right by the men and women who fight for it, these increases would seem worthwhile. Unfortunately, a large share of new spending is devoted not to helping soldiers serving today, but to improving the benefits for military retirees -- that is, the small minority of veterans who stay in the military for 20 years or more and are eligible for immediate benefits upon their retirements.'b'In recent years, Congress has expanded retiree benefits substantially, making them the fastest-growing category of entitlements for military personnel. In 1999, Congress reversed a 1986 law that would have trimmed pensions for retirees who joined the military after 1986. That change costs the Defense Department some $1 billion annually. A health care entitlement granted by Congress in 2000 pays virtually all medical expenses for older retirees and their spouses -- including the cost of prescription drugs -- that are not covered by Medicare. That entitlement costs the Defense Department nearly $4 billion now and its costs will rise over the coming years.'b'Another benefit, granted by Congress last year and scheduled to be phased in over a decade, will permit retirees who depart the military with moderate to severe disabilities to collect retirement pensions in addition to their disability payments. Its cost, about $500 million this year, will rise to some $2.5 billion a year in six years. In addition, a change authorized in October 2004 will enrich the pensions of spouses who outlive retired service members, at a cost of about $200 million this year and nearly $1 billion in 2011. As expensive as these new benefits are, advocates are pressing Congress for more.'b'These deferred entitlements do nothing to help men and women now in uniform. These members of the military face long and frequent family separations, deployment to distant lands, fighting in a dangerous counter-insurgency and more. Cash bonuses, improved family services, modern and well-maintained equipment and increases in troop strength (which would mean less frequent call-ups and deployments) are far more likely to serve their needs.'b"In fact, most active-duty military will never get anything -- because they will leave the service before they are eligible to retire with benefits. Fewer than one in 12 of today's living veterans qualify for retiree benefits, and fewer than one in five of today's active-duty service members are expected to stay for the 20 years it takes to receive them."b'Moreover, deferred benefits will not help the Army or the National Guard overcome the recruitment and retention problems they face as a result of the war in Iraq. The prospect of receiving such benefits in the distant future is virtually worthless in helping the military to persuade an 18-year-old to join the military or encourage a 23-year-old to re-enlist.'b'The rapid growth of retiree benefits has already greatly complicated the budget picture for military leaders. Even if Congress decides against further expansion of such benefits, the ones it has already granted will make it hard to slow budget growth without further reducing the size of the military. Giving in to pressure for another round of entitlements, in the face of the challenges facing the troops serving in Iraq and elsewhere, would be irresponsible.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Cindy Williams, a principal research scientist in the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is the editor of "Filling the Ranks: Transforming the U.S. Military Personnel System."'b'Last week someone leaked a memo written by Peter Wehner, an aide to Karl Rove, about how to sell Social Security privatization. The public, says Mr. Wehner, must be convinced that "the current system is heading for an iceberg."'b'It\'s the standard Bush administration tactic: invent a fake crisis to bully people into doing what you want. "For the first time in six decades," the memo says, "the Social Security battle is one we can win." One thing I haven\'t seen pointed out, however, is the extent to which the White House expects the public and the media to believe two contradictory things.'b"The administration expects us to believe that drastic change is needed, and needed right away, because of the looming cost of paying for the baby boomers' retirement."b"The administration expects us not to notice, however, that the supposed solution would do nothing to reduce that cost. Even with the most favorable assumptions, the benefits of privatization wouldn't kick in until most of the baby boomers were long gone. For the next 45 years, privatization would cost much more money than it saved."b'Advocates of privatization almost always pretend that all we have to do is borrow a bit of money up front, and then the system will become self-sustaining. The Wehner memo talks of borrowing $1 trillion to $2 trillion "to cover transition costs." Similar numbers have been widely reported in the news media.'b"But that's just the borrowing over the next decade. Privatization would cost an additional $3 trillion in its second decade, $5 trillion in the decade after that and another $5 trillion in the decade after that. By the time privatization started to save money, if it ever did, the federal government would have run up around $15 trillion in extra debt."b"These numbers are based on a Congressional Budget Office analysis of Plan2, which was devised by a special presidential commission in 2001 and is widely expected to be the basis for President Bush's plan."b'Under Plan2, payroll taxes would be diverted into private accounts while future benefits would be cut. In the short run, this would worsen the budget deficit. In the long run, if all went well, cutting benefit payments would reduce the deficit.'b"All wouldn't go well; I'll explain why in another column. But suppose that everything went according to plan. Even in that unlikely case, privatization wouldn't even begin to reduce the budget deficit until 2050. This is supposed to be the answer to an imminent crisis?"b'While we waited 45 years for something good to happen, there would be a real risk of a crisis -- not in Social Security, but in the budget as a whole. And privatization would increase that risk.'b"We already have a large budget deficit, the result of President Bush's insistence on cutting taxes while waging a war. And it will get worse: a rise in spending on entitlements -- mainly because of Medicare, but with a smaller contribution from Medicaid and, in a minor supporting role, Social Security -- looks set to sharply increase the deficit after 2010."b"Add borrowing for privatization to the mix, and the budget deficit might well exceed 8 percent of G.D.P. at some time during the next decade. That's a deficit that would make Carlos Menem's Argentina look like a model of responsibility. It would be sure to cause a collapse of investor confidence, sending the dollar through the floor, interest rates through the roof and the economy into a tailspin."b"And when investors started fleeing because they believed that America had turned into a banana republic, they wouldn't be reassured by claims that someday, in the distant future, privatization would do great things for the budget. Just ask the Argentines: their version of Social Security privatization was also supposed to save money in the long run, but all it did was move forward the date of their crisis."b"A responsible administration would reverse course on tax cuts and the botched 2003 Medicare drug bill, both of which pose much greater threats to the government's solvency than the modest financial shortfall of the Social Security system. But Mr. Bush has declared his tax cuts inviolable, and he says that his drug bill will actually save money. (The Medicare trustees say it will cost $8 trillion.)"b"There's an iceberg in front of us, all right. And Mr. Bush wants us to steam right into it, full speed ahead."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b'Is there any way this can still work? Is there any plausible scenario for how Iraq can turn into a functioning society?'b"These are the questions I've been throwing at government officials, military analysts and other wise heads over the past few weeks. Their answers, both uplifting and depressing, suggest that if we are lucky, the near future in Iraq will come in three phases."b"PHASE1: THE BLOODY CAMPAIGN -- Nearly everybody agrees that the momentum is with the insurgents these days. Chaos is spreading. Sunnis are jumping on the terrorists' bandwagon. If anything, the images of car bombings on our TV screens don't convey the full horror of the situation."b"They don't convey the sheer exhaustion of the people in the Sunni triangle, living month after month with little heat and sporadic electricity, nor the bitterness of living with crime and mayhem, nor the erosion of civic trust, nor the pervasive anxiety of not knowing if your children have been blown up on a given afternoon."b"And yet this is not Vietnam. The terrorists may be good at chopping off heads, but they have not won the people's minds. A desire for democracy runs deep in Iraq, along with an angry hunger for the rule of law."b"Eighty-three slates of candidates have been formed, despite the terrorists' threats. More than 7,000 people are running for office. At least 100 newspapers stir a lively cauldron of democratic ideas and debate."b"The newspaper Sabah recently published a poll of 4,974 Iraqis living in and around Baghdad. Nearly 88 percent support military action against the terrorists. A survey by the Iraq Center for Research and Strategic Studies suggests that the insurgents' archfoe, the prime minister Ayad Allawi, is the most popular prospective leader in the land."b'In this pre-election phase, we see the two sides of the situation: the unraveling of society and, at the same time, the hardening of resolve to create a normal, lawful nation.'b'PHASE2: BUILDING INSTITUTIONS -- One of the ideas we have got to purge from our heads is the notion that this is a conflict between secular modernizers (the good guys) and medieval religious zealots.'b'In Iraq, the most effective advocates for democracy are precisely the traditional Muslim leaders. The Shiite clerics in Najaf, led by Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, have learned from the failure of Ayatollah Khomeini\'s revolution in Iran. As Reuel Marc Gerecht argues in his monograph, "The Islamic Paradox," their commitment to democracy is real, the product of a genuine intellectual revolution. The Sistani-backed slate will probably lead the coming vote.'b"The people on that slate are not turbaned Thomas Jeffersons. They are skeptical, to say the least, about Americans. They are retrograde when it comes to women's rights. But they have embraced political freedom and one person one vote. They have prevented a civil war by calling on Shiite forces to not seek revenge against Sunni terrorists. They will bring leading Sunnis into the constitution-writing process, even if Sunnis themselves are unable to vote."b"They will continue the process that's one of the few success stories so far, the process of building political institutions: bargaining, squabbling and learning to share power."b'PHASE3: AFTER THE GREEN ZONE -- The arrival of a new government will also mean the end of the American-dominated authority. The new, Shiite-led government will begin debating when the Americans should leave. The new government will remake the intelligence service. It will transform the military, probably bringing in members of the Badr Brigade, trained in Iran, to join the former Baathist elements. The army will grow, and its soldiers will finally have an authentic Iraqi government to fight for.'b"The task will be to crush the terrorists while scaring the Sunni opportunists into believing that if they don't join the New Iraq, they will lose everything. The government will have to do this without fracturing the Shiite-Sunni centrist coalition or touching off all-out bloodletting."b'It will be a long and monumental task. And the strange thing is that even with our 150,000-odd troops fighting heroically around the country, the destiny of Iraq is largely out of our hands. The U.S. tried to hand a new Iraq back to the Iraqis. We failed.'b'And yet there is a plausible path to success. The relative strengths of the two sides mean it is too early to despair. When the decent 95 percent of a society take on the ruthless 5 percent, and when the ruthless 5 percent have no positive vision, it just may happen that the decent people will somehow -- eventually -- win.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b"If there is any upside to the forced resignation of Florencio L\xc3\xb3pez-de-Silanes from his post as director of Yale's International Institute for Corporate Governance, it is this: corporate governance, a relatively obscure issue a few years ago, has now grown big enough to generate its own scandals."b"Big enough, indeed, to have inspired an institute, which Yale's School of Management created in mid-2001. Yale wooed Mr. L\xc3\xb3pez-de-Silanes from Harvard to run the center, reportedly outbidding other suitors."b'As Yale had hoped, the energetic young academic, now 38, soon put the institute on the map, churning out scholarly papers and trotting energetically around the globe to one forum after another. Mr. L\xc3\xb3pez-de-Silanes has also been a consultant to the World Bank, and he was recently honored by the World Economic Forum as one of the 100 Global Leaders for Tomorrow.'b'The problem was that Mr. L\xc3\xb3pez-de-Silanes reportedly billed both his hosts and Yale for his travel expenses -- about $150,000 altogether, according to The Wall Street Journal. Upon discovering these irregularities, Yale quietly orchestrated his resignation for "financial misconduct and irregularities."'b'Mr. L\xc3\xb3pez-de-Silanes has apologized, is said to have made restitution and, through his attorney, attributes his behavior to "the intensity of my focus on my work." There has been much gnashing of teeth among corporate governance experts, who say this is simply another case of leaders\' failing to lead by example. A more upbeat take is that only an issue that everyone is now interested in could have generated so many trips.'b"There was much to celebrate about the way the Palestinians managed a free, fair and democratic election in occupied territory, moving beyond mourning for Yasir Arafat and giving Mahmoud Abbas a broad mandate as the Arab world's sole democratically elected leader. It was also impressive that men and women from Gaza to Hebron and the Jenin refugee camp accomplished this act of democracy despite Israeli roadblocks and checkpoints, and an exchange of gunfire between Hezbollah and the Israeli military. Now we hope the Palestinians can turn that civic energy into pragmatic efforts toward negotiating peace with Israel."b'Mr. Abbas, the new president of the Palestinian Authority, faces a daunting agenda. After four years of violence, the economy of the Palestinian areas is in shambles. Unemployment is high because thousands of Palestinians who were once able to hold jobs in Israeli cities are now barred from entry, and movement around Palestinian areas is choked by Israeli roadblocks.'b'Under Mr. Arafat, the Palestinian Authority squandered the good will of much of its public and of the international community through corruption. For Mr. Abbas to have any chance of achieving an independent Palestinian state with some claim to Jerusalem, he has two huge battles to fight. He must crack down on the terrorism that has given the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, an excuse to refuse to negotiate a peace deal, and he must prepare the Palestinian people for the compromises they will have to make.'b"Both battles will be wrenchingly painful. Beyond dealing with groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, Mr. Abbas must also contend with legions of unemployed, angry young men who make up various armed groups. Many of these fighters could get jobs and salaries in a reformed Palestinian security service, provided Israel gives Mr. Abbas the room to create such a force and the Palestinians give it real training and discipline. It will not be easy to achieve, but such a service, preferably under the command of someone with Mr. Abbas's ear, could go a long way toward cracking down on the killing, both between Palestinian and Palestinian and between Palestinian and Israeli."b"Mr. Abbas's second task, preparing his people for negotiations with Israel based on the realities of the deal they must eventually make, may prove even tougher. The Palestinians can no longer afford to raise their boys and girls to believe in all-or-nothing propositions regarding Israel. The longer they do that, the longer it will take to reach a settlement, and the longer the Palestinians dally about reaching a peace deal with Israel, the more land they lose."b'The world has long recognized what steps must be taken on the path that began in Olso; a year ago, Israelis and Palestinians of good will met in Geneva and hammered out an unofficial proposal for a settlement. It calls for two neighboring states with two capitals in Jerusalem, the evacuation of most Jewish settlements and the incorporation of the rest into Israel in exchange for land for Palestine. It also calls for a limit, to be set by Israel, on the number of Palestinian refugees who can settle in Israel, and compensation or resettlement for the rest.'b'Getting to the point where such a plan is even on the negotiating table will also require real political courage from Israel.'b'It was reassuring yesterday that the Israeli Parliament gave Mr. Sharon approval for a new government that can push forward, with Palestinian participation, on leaving the Gaza Strip. Mr. Sharon can help shore up Mr. Abbas by finally cracking down on the illegal settlements that his government has not only allowed, but also encouraged. And Israel can begin to withdraw from settlements in the West Bank. Gaza is only a first step.'b"Like the Palestinian leaders, Mr. Sharon and other Israeli officials have been unwilling to prepare the extreme factions of their population for reality. The hundreds of demonstrators who spent yesterday outside the prime minister's office to protest loudly against the planned Gaza pullout will have to learn to share that land with the Palestinians if they ever want peace."b'The evidence has gotten much stronger that a substance known as C-reactive protein may be every bit as important as cholesterol in the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease. Back in 2002, a thought-provoking study found that a blood test for C-reactive protein, called CRP, was actually better than the standard cholesterol test at predicting the risk of a heart attack or a stroke. Now two studies published in The New England Journal of Medicine have shown that drugs that reduce the levels of that protein in patients with severe heart disease can slow the progression of atherosclerosis and prevent heart attacks and cardiac-related deaths.'b'Although the studies came laced with caveats, their cumulative impact suggests that cardiology is in the midst of a revolutionary shift in understanding the causes of heart disease. After years of focusing on the role of cholesterol in clogging arteries, researchers now recognize C-reactive protein, a measure of inflammation in artery walls and elsewhere, as a prime risk factor in its own right.'b'The key study published last week found that heart disease patients who were given high doses of a cholesterol-lowering statin drug also experienced a drop in CRP levels and in heart attacks. Thus the high-dose statin packed a double wallop.'b'These findings apply only to patients already suffering from severe heart disease. A separate clinical trial will seek to determine whether lowering C-reactive protein can reduce heart attacks in healthy patients with normal cholesterol levels but above-average levels of C-reactive protein. Nearly half of all people who suffer heart attacks have normal cholesterol levels, so it is critical to devise tests and treatments to reduce their risk.'b'Even before the final clinical results are in, it would seem prudent for all overweight couch potatoes who think they are safe because their cholesterol levels are low to get their C-reactive protein levels tested. If their CRP levels are high, they may be spurred to lose weight, exercise and stop smoking to bring down those protein levels. High doses of statins, with their risk of side effects, would presumably be a last resort.'b"At the rate President Bush's supporters are giving money, his second inauguration threatens to stand out in the history books like the common folks' muddy boot prints on the White House furniture at Andrew Jackson's gala. The $40 million record for inaugural partying set four years ago for Mr. Bush is expected to be shattered this month. The only limits for this binge of giving are the private inaugural committee's maximum of $250,000 for corporate donors (more than 40 have pledged so far) and $100,000 for individuals (60 and counting)."b"Ordinary citizens might have hoped that the overriding issue in Washington -- the perilous Iraq war, with its drain on the nation's blood and treasure -- would dictate restraint. But plans for the four-day extravaganza roll forward with nine celebratory balls being underwritten by the usual corporate and fat-cat supplicants in the political power mill."b"There's nothing new in Washington's triumphalist celebrations, festooned with price tags for access, but war usually mutes the singing and dancing. Not this year."b'The inaugural\'s stated theme -- "Celebrating Freedom, Honoring Service" -- is spin-doctoring in the extreme and hardly justifies the unrestrained lucre-fest. Planners did take care to create a "Commander in Chief Ball," free to the military and their families. But that only underscores the bad taste. Officials say "freedom everywhere" is the point of the celebrations. The freedom most obviously honored is that of American businesses, eagerly writing checks to get ever closer to the election winners.'b"WASHINGTON - What's the secret to long-run success?"b"For a person, it's useful to have the smarts, look great, be lucky and exude charisma. All that is not enough."b'For a political party, it helps to have good organization, articulate candidates and pollsters to discern a popular set of issues. Not enough.'b'For a nation, success can seem assured by natural resources, free enterprise, a culture of compassion and a free press. It can still go under.'b'For a person, a party and a nation, the element essential to success is character, a word that grew out of the Greek for "to mark, to engrave."'b'We can see that mark on individuals under stress: Lincoln, taking on the bloody burden of conflict to uphold majority rule. Or engraved in the unknown brain scientists of today, who break beyond the necessary treatment of mental suffering to the artificial enhancement of the human mind -- and debate in their own minds if and when it is ethical to "play God."'b"Such men and women shape their character in life's personal decisions, weighing the warmth of loyalty against the cool of independence. They choose careers to gain the power to do good, or to build and support family, or to fulfill artistic talents -- but forge character in sacrifices made in choosing one path over another."b'We also see the mark of character, or lack of it, in political parties. The Republican Party today is characterized by a mission to defeat terror while exporting freedom abroad, and a policy to restrain taxes while increasing social spending at home.'b'Such a sharply defined character has led to electoral success and control of the White House, the Congress, state legislatures and the Supreme Court. Though George W. Bush is not an overwhelmingly beloved leader, he won a clear majority because most swing voters felt he resolutely stood for what he believed in. Their votes for character had coattails.'b"The G.O.P. personality will split in a couple of years, as all huge majorities do in America. Idealistic neocons will be challenged by plodding, pragmatic paleocons, who, by fuzzing the party's present character, will someday lead it down the road to defeat."b"If I were starting out in politics or its commentary today, I'd become a Democrat. That's because the party now is six disconsolate characters in search of an author."b'Adlai Stevenson called 1952 Republicans "out of patience, out of sorts and out of office." That tight shoe now fits liberals, who have been drifting toward isolationism abroad and fiscal conservatism at home, which for Democrats are out of character. The spirit of Senator Henry "Scoop" Jackson is needed to return the party to ideological consistency: interventionist at home and abroad.'b'Although opportunism is often cited as the opposite of character, not so in politics: this is the opportune time for the Democratic minority to take advantage of its bantamweight agility and "stand for something."'b'What of a nation\'s character -- does it presage long-run success? In northern Iraq, the Kurdish "nation" is self-defended, democratic and prosperous, its success based on the fiercely independent nature of Muslim Kurds.'b'The British historian D.W. Brogan wrote 60 years ago that the unique achievement of Americans to form a continental nation -- without sacrificing liberty or efficiency -- led to the temper of the pioneer, the gambler and the booster: "the religion of economic and political optimism."'b"History has shown that U.S. optimism has not been misplaced. But what of reports of global griping at America's superpower arrogance -- at our government's triumphalism? Has our character been warped by victories in three world wars?"b"Call me a chauvinist unilateralist, but I believe America's human and economic sacrifices for the advance of freedom abroad show our personal, political and national character to be stronger and better than ever. This moral advance will be more widely appreciated as an Islamic version of democracy takes root. (What's triumphalism without a triumph?)"b"It is that growing strength of national character -- more than our individual genius or political leadership or military power -- that ensures the future success of America and brightens the light of liberty's torch."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: safire@nytimes.com'b'When the United States was debating whether to invade Iraq, there was one outcome that everyone agreed had to be avoided at all costs: a civil war between Sunni and Shiite Muslims that would create instability throughout the Middle East and give terrorists a new, ungoverned region that they could use as a base of operations. The coming elections -- long touted as the beginning of a new, democratic Iraq -- are looking more and more like the beginning of that worst-case scenario.'b"It's time to talk about postponing the elections."b"If Iraq is going to survive as a nation, it has to create a government in which the majority rules -- in this case, that means the Shiites -- but the minorities are guaranteed protection of their basic rights and enough of a voice to influence important decisions. The Kurds, non-Arab Sunnis who live in the northeastern part of the country, seem to believe that the elections will bring them what they most want: relative autonomy to conduct their own affairs as part of an Iraqi federation. But the Sunni Arabs, who make up about 20 percent of the population, have grown increasingly estranged. The largest mainstream Sunni party has withdrawn from the current interim government, and just about all of the country's leading Sunni Arab politicians now call either for postponing the elections or boycotting them. Given the violence in Sunni areas, even voters who wish to take part may hesitate to turn out. In some places, the polls may not open at all."b'A postponement -- which would have to be for a fixed period of only two or three months -- would not solve all the safety problems. But it would be a sign to the Sunni Arabs that their concerns were being taken into consideration. That in itself could go a long way toward reassuring them that the Shiite majority was not planning to trample on their rights. The interim government should convene an emergency meeting of top leaders from all major Iraqi communities to come up with a revised election timetable and procedures that would optimize the ability of minority groups to get proper representation. The Sunni leaders, in return, would have to promise to take part in the elections that followed.'b'Worrying about whether the Sunnis will be included in the government does not mean sympathizing with their baser resentments. Under Saddam Hussein, the Sunni minority reaped almost all of the good things Iraq had to offer while trampling on the rights of the Shiites and Kurds. Those days are over, and the Sunnis simply have to accept the fact that they will never again enjoy their old enormous share of the pie. But if Iraq is to start moving beyond its long history of communal hostility, the Shiites need to demonstrate that they will not treat the Sunnis the way the Sunnis treated them.'b"To understand what's happening in Iraq, imagine the mind-set of the Sunnis -- not the loathsome terrorists who shoot election workers and kill civilians with car bombs and mines, but the average people, including middle-class men and women whose lives have been ruined since the invasion."b"The United States and its allies made a great many mistakes in dealing with the Sunnis. On the top of the list would be the early decision to disband the Iraqi military and a decree, later reversed, that banned tens of thousands of teachers, doctors and other professionals who had belonged to Saddam Hussein's Baath Party from government employment -- including many people who had joined the party perfunctorily to keep out of trouble."b'Since then, the Sunnis have discovered that the American Army -- which many regarded as all-powerful -- has not protected them from either the criminals or the terrorists who have been operating throughout their region since the overthrow of the Hussein regime. Forced to huddle in their homes to avoid kidnappers or suicide bombers, they have had plenty of time to contemplate the fact that the Americans have also not delivered on their vow to improve infrastructure and provide reliable power and water service. More recently, Sunni civilians have borne the brunt of American counterinsurgency drives like the one in Falluja, which have left residential areas devastated and thousands homeless.'b"Much of this could have been avoided if the American invasion had been conducted more wisely, but it is the reality now, and the American occupiers can't fix it. A democratically elected government might be able to build up an effective Iraqi security force and win the war against the guerrillas, whose attacks are making everyday life impossible in the Sunni provinces. But it would have to be a government that included all factions."b'A broad range of Sunni leaders, including some of the most moderate and pro-Western, are pleading for a postponement of the elections. They have good reason to fear that as matters now stand, many of their people will be unwilling or unable to take part. Last week the top American ground commander in Iraq said that large areas of four largely Sunni provinces, including Baghdad, are currently too insecure for people to vote. Prime Minister Ayad Allawi admitted yesterday there would be at least "pockets" of the country where voting would be too dangerous.'b'If the elections wind up taking place under current conditions, the new government could wind up with little or no Sunni representation when the new constitution was prepared. The winners of the elections, who will inevitably be Shiites, could, of course, appoint Sunni representatives. But the next Iraqi constitution is bound to include provisions that will make the Sunnis unhappy, and the people agreeing to those deals need to have the legitimacy that comes with being elected.'b'It seems clear in retrospect that the elections should have been set up along district or provincial lines, an approach that would have ensured minority representation. It would also have allowed the interim government to carry on with voting in the Shiite and Kurdish areas this month while postponing it in the four violence-racked provinces, giving Sunnis the prospect of electing their share of legislators later. The United Nations organizers are mainly at fault here. They made their decisions under heavy pressure from the Bush administration to come up with a simple system that could be in place by Jan. 30. But it now appears that it would have been better to accept the flaws inherent in a regional approach in order to get solid protection for the Sunnis.'b"For all the talk about letting the Iraqi interim authorities govern Iraq, President Bush will have the final say in large matters, like when to hold elections, as long as American troops are the only effective military in the country. He has always insisted on holding to the Jan. 30 date. Mr. Bush keeps saying that things will go well once the voting actually starts. We certainly hope he's right, but we doubt that he is as optimistic about the outcome as he appears to be in public."b"Many Americans -- and many Iraqis -- worry that if the elections were postponed, the terrorists would feel empowered by having won. That might indeed be the case for the next few months. But that outcome would be far outweighed by the danger that would come from a civil war, with the Sunni territory becoming a no man's land where terrorists could operate at will. Others argue that civil war is probably inevitable one way or another, and that we may as well get the voting over with. That kind of pessimism may be warranted. But given the horrific possibilities, we should make every effort to avoid that end. A delay in the voting seems to offer at least a ray of hope, and it pushes Iraq in the direction it desperately needs to go: toward a democracy in which all religious and ethnic groups have a stake."b'Mr. Bush does not need to call for a postponement of elections himself. He simply needs to take the pressure off the Iraqi authorities, and let them know they have the power to make whatever decision is best for their country. Some members of the interim government, including people close to Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, have shown some interest in putting off the voting if there is a chance of winning more Sunni participation, and others are said to be leaning that way in private.'b"The run-up to the election is taking place at a time when there's speculation about whether President Bush intends to use the arrival of a new, elected government as an occasion to declare victory and begin pulling out American troops. If such an idea is lurking in even the most remote corner of Mr. Bush's mind, he should at least do everything within his power -- including welcoming a postponement -- to prevent those elections from being something more than just the starting gun for a civil war."b"Tulsa, Okla. - DOUG MIENTKIEWICZ, the first baseman for the Boston Red Sox, caught the final out of the 2004 World Series. After celebrating with his teammates, Mientkiewicz ran into the dugout with his glove and the ball. He later gave the ball to his wife, who stuffed it in her purse, and they took the ball home. He now says it belongs to him. It doesn't."b"The Boston Red Sox, who won their first championship since 1918 last year, want Mientkiewicz to return the ball. The Red Sox say it belongs to them and their fans. It doesn't."b"For most baseball games, the ball is provided by the home team and therefore belongs to the home team -- in this case, the St. Louis Cardinals, Boston's opponent. For World Series games, Major League Baseball provides the balls but in effect gives them to the home team to use during the game. Thus, there are only two plausible owners of the ball that Mientkiewicz caught: the St. Louis Cardinals or Major League Baseball."b"Disputes over historic baseballs are not uncommon. Two fans even went to court over ownership of Barry Bonds's 73rd home-run ball in 2001. (The judge in that case, Popov v. Hayashi, ordered the ball to be sold, with the parties sharing the proceeds.) The status of the ball Mientkiewicz caught, however, is quite different from that of one hit into the stands. Any ball that leaves the field of play still technically belongs to the home team. But since the mid-1940's, no baseball team has demanded the return of a ball hit into the stands. Some teams specifically state on the back of a ticket or on posted signs at the ballpark that fans are allowed to keep balls that land outside the field."b"And even without an explicit policy of this kind, teams do not go after balls caught by fans. They know that fans come to the ballpark hoping to catch a ball. A ticket to a game is akin to a lottery ticket: most likely you will end up with nothing; there is a small chance that you will get a foul ball hit by an unknown player; and there is a tiny possibility that you will catch a record-breaking home run. Teams allow fans to take home the balls they catch because the cost and bother of retrieving balls is too great. Teams also let fans keep balls because if they don't, the fans may riot."b'A ball caught by a fielder, however, is by definition not in the stands. And the fielder who catches the ball is an employee of a team. His job is to catch the ball and make an out; if he has the ball when the play ends, he is supposed to throw it to the pitcher to be used again. He cannot simply stick the ball in his pocket and take it home, even if it is the final out of the game. It is not his ball.'b'Possession may be nine-tenths of the law, but when you take something that belongs to your employer or anyone else, the law calls it theft.'b'The question then comes back to who owned the ball when the game began. In the regular season, the answer is clear: the home team. Whether the home team owns the balls used in its park during a World Series game is a slightly more complicated question. But only slightly; if the home team does not own it, then Major League Baseball does.'b'Should Major League Baseball allow Mientkiewicz to keep the ball? Should the player who catches the last out of a World Series be awarded a valuable souvenir? What message does this send to the players and the fans? Will it cause teammates to compete with one another for balls that may someday be valuable? From both a business and competitive standpoint, this makes no sense. The players work for a team, and their job is to help the team win.'b'Doug Mientkiewicz should return the ball to its owner: the St. Louis Cardinals. Or he should just mail it to Bud Selig, the commissioner of baseball. Let him decide what to do with it.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Paul Finkelman, a professor at the University of Tulsa College of Law, was an expert witness for the plaintiff in Popov v. Hayashi.'b"Here's a wrenching fact: If the U.S. had an infant mortality rate as good as Cuba's, we would save an additional 2,212 American babies a year."b"Yes, Cuba's. Babies are less likely to survive in America, with a health care system that we think is the best in the world, than in impoverished and autocratic Cuba. According to the latest C.I.A. World Factbook, Cuba is one of 41 countries that have better infant mortality rates than the United States."b'Even more troubling, the rate in the U.S. has worsened recently.'b"In every year since 1958, America's infant mortality rate improved, or at least held steady. But in 2002, it got worse: 7 babies died for each thousand live births, while that rate was 6.8 deaths the year before."b"Those numbers, buried in a recent report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, didn't get much attention. But they are part of a pattern of recent statistics dribbling out of the federal government suggesting that for those on the bottom in America, life in our new Gilded Age is getting crueler."b'"America\'s children are at greater risk than they\'ve been in for at least a decade," said Dr. Irwin Redlener, associate dean at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and president of the Children\'s Health Fund. "The rising rate of infant mortality is an early warning that we\'re headed in the wrong direction, with no relief in sight."'b"It's too early to know just what to make of the increase in infant mortality in 2002 for American babies. Reliable data for 2003 and 2004 are not out yet. Sandy Smith of the Centers for Disease Control says that the statisticians are pretty sure there was not a further deterioration in 2003, but that it's too soon to know whether there was an improvement or just a leveling off at the higher rate."b'Singapore has the best infant mortality rate in the world: 2.3 babies die before the age of 1 for every 1,000 live births. Sweden, Japan and Iceland all have a rate that is less than half of ours.'b"If we had a rate as good as Singapore's, we would save 18,900 babies each year. To put it another way, our policy failures in Iraq may be killing Americans at a rate of about 800 a year, but our health care failures at home are resulting in many more deaths -- of infants. And their mothers, because women are 70 percent more likely to die in childbirth in America than in Europe."b"Of course, deaths in maternity wards occur one by one, and don't generate the national attention, grief and alarm of an explosion in Falluja or a tsunami in Sri Lanka. But they are far more frequent: every day, on average, 77 babies die in the U.S. and one woman dies in childbirth."b"Bolstering public health isn't as dramatic as spending $300 million for a single F/A-22 Raptor fighter jet, but it can be a far more efficient way of protecting Americans."b'For example, during World War II, the employment boom meant that many poor Americans enjoyed regular health care for the first time. So even though 405,000 Americans died in the war, life expectancy in the U.S. actually increased between 1940 and 1945, rising three years for whites and five years for blacks.'b'True, infant mortality and many other American health problems are largely intertwined with poverty, and experience suggests that neither the left nor the right has easy solutions for intractable poverty. But some of the steps the government is now taking or talking about -- like cutting back further on entitlements, particularly those giving children access to health care -- would aggravate the situation. Last year, a study by the Institute of Medicine, a branch of the National Academy of Sciences, estimated that the lack of health insurance coverage causes 18,000 unnecessary deaths a year.'b"As readers know, I complain regularly about the Chinese government's brutality in imprisoning dissidents, Christians and, lately, Zhao Yan, a New York Times colleague in Beijing. Yet for all their ruthlessness, China's dictators have managed to drive down the infant mortality rate in Beijing to 4.6 per thousand; in contrast, New York City's rate is 6.5."b"We should celebrate this freedom that we enjoy in America -- by complaining about and working to address pockets of poverty and failures in our health care system. It's simply unacceptable that the average baby is less likely to survive in the U.S. than in Beijing or Havana."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b"Washington - IT is clear the top leadership at the Department of Education is the gang that can't flack straight. How else to explain the department's decision to pay the commentator Armstrong Williams $240,000 to promote the No Child Left Behind Act in his work and to his colleagues? Ultimately, this is a second-tier scandal, but it takes a place among a series of bad decisions that risk scuttling the most ambitious effort in a generation to improve education for poor and minority youngsters."b'Mr. Williams strenuously claims he supported the No Child Left Behind law before he accepted any money, and there is no reason to doubt him. But this defense just adds ineptitude to the already shady nature of the deal. If Mr. Williams was a proponent of the law, then the political appointees at the Department of Education spent almost a quarter of a million dollars paying off someone already on their side. Ethics notwithstanding, this is a stunningly inefficient use of public dollars -- every bit as redundant as paying football fans to watch the Super Bowl.'b'Moreover, the Bush team knew where to look for more cost-effective marks -- that is, ones who needed persuading. At least until recently, the administration kept rankings of reporters based on their coverage of the law and its efforts on education. Reporters were graded on a 100-point scale depending on whether their stories were critical or favorable toward the law.'b"Bravely jeopardizing incalculable points, Ben Feller of The Associated Press broke that news last October. Yet here again, the deed itself is actually less worrisome than the implicit message about the department's top leadership: hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent on the outside consultants who actually did the rankings."b"Can political appointees who botch the simple economics of a payoff -- or cannot figure out by themselves which news articles are favorable to them and which aren't -- put into effect a law as complicated as No Child Left Behind? It's no laughing matter. Large policy changes require sustained, intensive and expert attention."b"So far the administration's record fails to inspire confidence. Initially, it was slow to work with states and school districts and explain what the new education law requires, causing confusion among all parties. Those problems persist to this day. And when it finally did get regulations and information out, some were overly restrictive and subsequently needed revision, causing more confusion and costing support."b"Playing politics with the law's financing also gave its critics an easy target. Considering the overall lack of fiscal constraint typical of this administration, its decision to suddenly become stingy on crucial programs called for in the law is inexplicable."b'And then there were missteps like Secretary of Education Rod Paige\'s characterization of the National Education Association as a "terrorist organization." While unrelated to specific policies, such statements further weakened the administration\'s credibility.'b"Meanwhile, liberal Democratic stalwarts like Senator Edward Kennedy and Representative George Miller gamely resist efforts by groups like the teachers union to gut the law's accountability requirements. The stream of almost entirely avoidable problems and Department of Education gaffes makes it even harder for Democratic supporters of the law to resist the pressure."b"Repealing a law passed with broad bipartisan support is usually an uphill struggle. In this case, however, the law's critics enjoy a powerful ally: the Department of Education. It is nearly impossible to buy the sort of bad publicity the department has lately been giving away. The new secretary of education, Margaret Spellings, should focus on getting the policy right, and let the public relations take care of itself."b'Op-Ed Contributor Andrew J. Rotherham, director of education policy at the Progressive Policy Institute, writes the blog Eduwonk.com.'b'Here we are, three weeks into winter, and the season has delivered almost every kind of weather it has to deliver: waterspouts off Ventura, Calif., ice storms in the central Plains, glacial fog in the Texas Panhandle, profound depths of snow in the Sierra Nevada, flooding in the Ohio Valley and an all too familiar mix of ice, snow and rain in the Northeast.'b'Nowhere has winter been more impressive this year than in Southern California. Los Angeles has already had some 5 inches more than its annual rainfall in the last two weeks, including a record 2.6 inches on Sunday. The numbers do not really convey the effect of all that water, combined with powerful storm surges along the coast. Mudslides have closed freeways and caused evacuations and some deaths. Every creek and river -- dry streambeds for most of the year -- has swollen to a dangerous tide of dark water. Vast stretches of the Mojave Desert have been inundated by the unstinting rain. In the Central Valley, water stands in the fields, washing out the hope of some crops. In Bakersfield, which averages less than 6 inches of rainfall a year, the rain fell in sheets on Sunday and Monday, turning highways into long columns of vehicle-beaten spray.'b"There is temporary respite. Good weather will hit Southern California later this week, and the Northeast has enjoyed some mild intervals. And this much moisture in the arid West always promises good news, despite the chaotic way it has come. But no matter how good the weather gets for a few days in mid-January, the bulk of winter lies ahead. It's hard to imagine what it may bring."b"Boulder, Colo. - SINCE its discovery in 1655, Titan, Saturn's giant moon, has been an object of great mystery and speculation. We may now be a day or so away from clarifying many of those mysteries."b'What has Titan been hiding? Although it is larger than Mercury and Pluto, and easy to spot with even a backyard telescope, little is known of its surface. The only moon with a thick atmosphere (mostly nitrogen, like our own), it is perpetually shrouded in dense smog, which has long obscured our view.'b"What's more, Titan has methane clouds and probably rain, perhaps producing the only open seas in our solar system other than those on Earth, though these would be seas of liquefied natural gas. The prospect of hydrocarbon lakes on Titan also suggests that much of what gives our planet its unique character -- surf, waterfalls, storms, lightning, rivers and tides, may also be acting, in some form, on the surface of Titan."b"But what about that certain something that really makes Earth, well, Earth: life itself? We know that Titan was once more like our planet -- hotter and watery in its youth. We know, too, that Titan's global smog bank is a smorgasbord of organic molecules -- the stuff of life -- that must continually be drizzling down on the surface."b'This manna makes Titan a prime exploration target for astrobiology -- the study of life beyond Earth. If terrestrial life started from a primordial soup of complex organics floating in young seas, then the deeply frozen surface of Titan (minus 290 degrees Fahrenheit) is a primordial snow cone loaded with the same promising molecules.'b'Thus Titan seems like an analog of the environment of Earth on the eve of life, a place where we can study the type of complex organic chemistry that at least once somehow became alive. Could the moon be home to primitive organisms that emerged during its warmer period? Might some of these still be playing "survivor" in underground seas or near-surface lakes melted by volcanic heat or the occasional energetic comet collision?'b"We just might find out. Last July 1, after an intrepid seven-year trek from Earth, NASA's Cassini spacecraft reached Saturn, swinging within 12,000 miles of the roiling cloud tops before hitting the brakes hard with a 97-minute blast of its main engine. This harrowing maneuver slowed the spacecraft so that Saturn's gravity could pull it into orbit like a horseshoe hitting the post."b"Cassini's close fly-by of Titan in October allowed the first decent surface images of the moon, made by using cloud-penetrating radar and infrared light. These show us that Titan is an active world with a youthful, still evolving surface."b"How can we tell? The key clue is a dearth of the circular impact craters that stipple the landscapes of all worlds with ancient surfaces. Most moons, including Earth's, have been geologically dead for eons, as they lack the internal energy to produce the upheavals that would erase the scars of long-ago comet or asteroid collisions."b"Titan, however, is sparsely cratered, which tells us the surface is young and, like Earth's, undergoing some kind of makeover. A variety of surface features are seen but none are obviously recognizable, giving us, for the moment, a planetary Rorschach test. Some scientists see hints of possible ice volcanoes. Others see streaks and curving boundaries suggesting blowing dust and flowing liquid, cracks from Titan-quakes and signs of large-scale erosion. Large dark areas first hinted at seas, but these sites seem to have the wrong reflective properties for bodies of open liquid. Nothing is universally accepted among the scientists now obsessing over these new images. It is rare for us to have this quality and quantity of images and still not really have a clue as to what is going on down there beneath the enveloping haze."b'All this may be about to change.'b'Christiaan Huygens, the 17th-century Dutch astronomer who discovered Titan, believed that it was inhabited, and speculated on how the creatures there would have adapted to the perpetual winter experienced at 890 million miles from the sun. Now the European-built Huygens probe, which separated from Cassini on the night of Dec. 24-25, is about to take the plunge.'b"Huygens is expected to reach Titan on Friday morning and drop through the smog and the clouds and the thick atmosphere to land, or crash, or perhaps even splash on the surface. Scientists don't know if the probe will hit solid ice, organic slush or some kind of liquid, so it is built to float just in case. During the two-hour descent, it will be taking photos and sampling the air, haze and light. With some luck, it could survive on the surface for half an hour, snapping pictures and testing the ground until its batteries die out or Cassini recedes beyond range of its transmitter."b'This is a precious opportunity. In recent years we have proved there are scores of planets in our own galactic neighborhood, which tells us that surely there are trillions out there in the wider universe. Each of these, in our current ignorance, is a potential home for some kind of life. But most of them are out of reach for us and our nonremote descendants -- the laws of physics and the (truly) astronomical distances to the stars will see to that. To tease out what we can about the universal laws of planetary birth and evolution, and the range of possible biological habitats our universe has to offer, we are left only with the planets orbiting our sun, and their moons.'b"Among these, Titan is the only clouded, gas-enshrouded solid world in our solar system we have not yet visited. So tomorrow's probe entry is the last time we will first burst through the clouds of an unknown planet, parachute to the ground and see, during the descent, the approach and -- if we're lucky -- after the landing, the secret vistas of another alien place."b'Op-Ed Contributor David Grinspoon, a planetary scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, is the author of "Lonely Planets: The Natural Philosophy of Alien Life."'b'Apple Computer\'s classic advertisements urge buyers to "think different," and this week the company took its own advice. It broke with its longstanding policy of catering to the connoisseurs of high-end cool and unveiled both a $499 desktop computer, called the Mac Mini, and a $99 stripped-down version of the iPod digital music player. We\'ll see whether the strategy works, but it\'s interesting to see a company whose customers have always regarded themselves as a lonely elite deciding to try a new direction.'b"Despite Apple's complaints about Microsoft's dominance, one of the biggest drags on Apple's growth has been that its computers generally cost more than similar Windows PC's. But the Mac Mini has a base price hundreds of dollars below what had been Apple's lowest-priced computer. The $499 is misleading because it does not include a monitor, keyboard, mouse and other needed items, but the sticker price may get the attention of some Microsoft users, particularly the millions of people who have been introduced to Apple through iPods."b'The player, the iPod Shuffle, has a base price far cheaper than the $249 starting point for regular iPods and is a wonder of Apple engineering. As Apple\'s marketers cheerfully note, it is smaller than a pack of gum. It holds just 120 songs, rather than a standard iPod\'s 5,000. And you have to let them play at random ("Enjoy uncertainty," Apple says, in a stab at a new kind of cool), or load songs from your computer in the order you want to hear them.'b"But an iPod with a two-digit price tag has a lot going for it. And perhaps there are actually lots of potential iPod users out there who have been discouraged from entering this market because they just don't feel a need for 5,000 songs. The Shuffle says it's O.K. to be one of those people who can't think of more than 100 tunes they really like."b'WASHINGTON - A few years ago at a White House Correspondents\' dinner, I met a very beautiful actress. Within moments, she blurted out: "I can\'t believe I\'m 46 and not married. Men only want to marry their personal assistants or P.R. women."'b"I'd been noticing a trend along these lines, as famous and powerful men took up with the young women whose job it was to tend to them and care for them in some way: their secretaries, assistants, nannies, caterers, flight attendants, researchers and fact-checkers."b'Women in staff support are the new sirens because, as a guy I know put it, they look upon the men they work for as "the moon, the sun and the stars." It\'s all about orbiting, serving and salaaming their Sun Gods.'b'In all those great Tracy/Hepburn movies more than a half-century ago, it was the snap and crackle of a romance between equals that was so exciting. Moviemakers these days seem far more interested in the soothing aura of romances between unequals.'b'In James Brooks\'s "Spanglish," Adam Sandler, as a Los Angeles chef, falls for his hot Mexican maid. The maid, who cleans up after Mr. Sandler without being able to speak English, is presented as the ideal woman. The wife, played by T\xc3\xa9a Leoni, is repellent: a jangly, yakking, overachieving, overexercised, unfaithful, shallow she-monster who has just lost her job with a commercial design firm. Picture Faye Dunaway in "Network" if she\'d had to stay home, or Glenn Close in "Fatal Attraction" without the charm.'b'The same attraction of unequals animated 2003\'s holiday hit, Richard Curtis\'s "Love Actually." The witty and sophisticated British prime minister, played by Hugh Grant, falls for the chubby girl who wheels the tea and scones into his office. A businessman married to the substantial Emma Thompson falls for his sultry secretary. A writer falls for his maid, who speaks only Portuguese.'b"(I wonder if the trend in making maids who don't speak English heroines is related to the trend of guys who like to watch Kelly Ripa in the morning with the sound turned off?)"b'Art is imitating life, turning women who seek equality into selfish narcissists and objects of rejection, rather than affection.'b'As John Schwartz of The New York Times wrote recently, "Men would rather marry their secretaries than their bosses, and evolution may be to blame."'b'A new study by psychology researchers at the University of Michigan, using college undergraduates, suggests that men going for long-term relationships would rather marry women in subordinate jobs than women who are supervisors.'b'As Dr. Stephanie Brown, the lead author of the study, summed it up for reporters: "Powerful women are at a disadvantage in the marriage market because men may prefer to marry less-accomplished women." Men think that women with important jobs are more likely to cheat on them.'b'"The hypothesis," Dr. Brown said, "is that there are evolutionary pressures on males to take steps to minimize the risk of raising offspring that are not their own." Women, by contrast, did not show a marked difference in their attraction to men who might work above or below them. And men did not show a preference when it came to one-night stands.'b"A second study by researchers at four British universities that was reported last week suggested that smart men with demanding jobs would rather have old-fashioned wives, like their mums, than equals. The study found that a high I.Q. hampers a woman's chance to get married, while it is a plus for men. The prospect for marriage increased by 35 percent for guys for each 16-point increase in I.Q.; for women, there is a 40 percent drop for each 16-point rise."b"So was the feminist movement some sort of cruel hoax? The more women achieve, the less desirable they are? Women want to be in a relationship with guys they can seriously talk to -- unfortunately, a lot of those guys want to be in relationships with women they don't have to talk to."b'I asked the actress and writer Carrie Fisher, on the East Coast to promote her novel "The Best Awful," who confirmed that women who challenge men are in trouble.'b'"I haven\'t dated in 12 million years," she said drily. "I gave up on dating powerful men because they wanted to date women in the service professions. So I decided to date guys in the service professions. But then I found out that kings want to be treated like kings, and consorts want to be treated like kings, too."'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b"Bangkok - IN 22 years of using Bangkok's airport, Don Muang, the busiest in Southeast Asia, I have never known it to be anything but crowded. On New Year's Eve, five days after the tsunami that devastated Phuket and much of the rest of southern Thailand, it was empty. I called friends from the airport, and found that nobody I knew had died; but everyone knew someone who was missing, from every walk of life: businessmen, prostitutes, dealers in marijuana, doctors, politicians. The tsunami made no social distinctions."b'I was returning from Laos, where my family and I had spent the Christmas vacation by the banks of the Mekong, in the delightful town of Luang Prabang. When we heard the news, my first thought was, "It could have been us." I had originally planned to take us sailing in the Andaman Sea, off Phuket. What chance would we have had in a small sailboat when people drowned in their hotel rooms? We were saved by indolence: I decided to drink Laotian beer by the Mekong rather than face the hassle of sailing.'b'On the street in Laos, every other Westerner was saying the same two things: "It happened at Christmas." And, like me: "It could have been us," for many Westerners in Laos also make a stop in Phuket on their tour of Southeast Asia. Almost everyone at that moment was ascribing a karmic cause to the disaster. Phuket had been a peaceful fishing island before the West brought to it money, decadence, environmental vandalism, alcohol, drugs and prostitution. And disaster struck on one of the most important religious holidays in the West.'b'Here in Thailand, though, the mainly Buddhist population adopted a more practical perspective. Thais have made compassion a pillar of their society. A poor country, Thailand had few resources to mobilize, so the people mobilized themselves. Many tambons, or villages, sent one in every 100 young men down to Phuket to help out. Doctors, and especially dentists (to match dental records with unidentifiable corpses), went at their own expense, slept on the floors of temples, fed themselves as best they could and risked disease.'b'Survivors appeared on television to testify to the extraordinary courage of Thais who had died trying to save tourists. The phrase nam jai, meaning "consideration from the heart," was frequently heard. At least as many Thais as foreigners had died, but most of the nam jai seemed directed at visitors. Thais were all so sorry that this had happened here, that their country had been so unlucky for so many visitors. It is embarrassing how much preferential treatment Westerners receive, even in death: the most careful identification, the best coffins.'b'The Thai way of grieving surprised tearful relatives of victims from the West. Life is tough for most of this country\'s 65 million inhabitants, who generally cultivate a Buddhist stoicism: strong emotion creates expanding circles of distress in the mind, tearing us away from the still center; best to meet tragedy with calm and dignity, not anger and guilt over having survived. Jai yen, or "cool heart," is what you need.'b'In a cab on the way home to my condo here, the driver says, "First the Asian financial crisis, then 9/11, then Iraq, then troubles with Muslims in the south of Thailand, now this."'b'I say, "You mean the omens for the 21st century are not good?"'b'A shrug: "No, but what can you do? Life goes on."'b'On the other hand, when Theravada Buddhism came to dominance here in the 13th century, it had to accommodate Hinduism and native animism. Detachment is all well and good, but spirits must be appeased, the dead cannot be left to roam aimlessly -- and something must be done to feed that ravenous sea god who expressed his rage by eating 5,300 people.'b'"How do Thai people like you feel about it now, two weeks later?" I ask Pui, who works behind a bar in downtown Bangkok and has frequently been to Phuket on business.'b'"The ghosts are a problem," she replies without hesitation. "Thai people hate ghosts and now Phuket is full of them. I won\'t go down there again."'b'Other girls at the bar corroborate. The grapevine is alive with ghost stories: the fisherman on Phi Phi Island who heard a large group of Westerners calling for help, but when he looked saw nobody; the tuk-tuk driver on Phuket who stopped for five tourists hailing his motorized rickshaw, then, when he looked behind him into the tuk-tuk, found no passengers.'b'Marly, a Thai who also works at the bar and has spent a lot of time in Phuket, sees things differently: "You know, I bet most of the Thais down there who died were from Isaan, especially the women," she says. Isaan, in the northeast, is the most impoverished part of Thailand; the Isaan women work in Phuket and send their earnings back home to families living on farms too poor to provide a living. "They were subsidizing agriculture. In the West the taxpayers subsidize farming, here it\'s the prostitutes. Sure, they\'ll rebuild Phuket in a year, but a lot of farmers will be broke by then."'b'We are joined by Sonja, who orders a coffee. "So, maybe the young men from Isaan can work on the rebuilding, give the girls a break," she says.'b'"As long as they can take the ghosts," Pui says with a laugh. She looks at me. "Thai men are as timid as women when it comes to ghosts."'b'"But they\'ll do it if they have to," Marly says. Pui agrees. Ghosts or no ghosts, life goes on.'b'Op-Ed Contributor John Burdett is the author of the novel "Bangkok 8" and its forthcoming sequel, "Bangkok Tattoo."'b'The world little noted, but at some point late last year the American search for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq ended.'b'We will, however, long remember the doomsday warnings from the Bush administration about mushroom clouds and sinister aluminum tubes; the breathless reports from TV correspondents when the invasion began, speculating on when the "smoking gun" would be unearthed; our own failures to deconstruct all the spin and faulty intelligence.'b"The search for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq may have been one of the greatest nonevents of the early 21st century, right up there with the failure of the world's computers to crash at the end of the last millennium. That Y2K scare at least brought us an updated Internet. Fear of the nonexistent W.M.D. brought us a war."b'Even after most of the sites were searched, the places that had been identified in spy photos as sinister weapons-production sites had been shown to be chicken coops, and the scary reports about nuclear weapons ready to be detonated proved to be the fantasies of feckless intelligence analysts, die-hard supporters of the invasion insisted that something would turn up. This proves once again the difficulties of debunking hard-held convictions: Mr. Bush did such a good job selling the weapons-hunting nostrum that 40 percent of Americans recently said the weapons were there.'b"The fact that nothing was found does not absolutely, positively prove that there wasn't something there once, something that was disassembled and trucked over the border to Syria or buried in yet another Iraqi rose garden. But it's not the sort of possibility you'd want to fight a war over. What all our loss and pain and expense in the Iraqi invasion has actually proved is that the weapons inspections worked, that international sanctions -- deeply, deeply messy as they turned out to be -- worked, and that in the case of Saddam Hussein, the United Nations worked. Whatever the Hussein regime once had is gone because the international community insisted. It was all destroyed a decade ago, under world pressure."b'This is not a lesson that many people in power in Washington are prepared to carry away, but it is what the national adventure in the reckless doctrine of preventive warfare has to teach us.'b'The findings issued last fall by the Iraq Survey Group, which concluded that the W.M.D. threat did not exist in Iraq when Mr. Bush decided to go to war, will apparently stand as its final conclusions. The Washington Post reported that the leader of the search team, Charles Duelfer, is working on some additions that will be included when the report is published in book form, but quoted an intelligence official as saying there was "no particular news" in the extra material. The 1,200 military men and women who were assigned to his search team are now fighting Iraqi insurgents. We hope they succeed. If they do not, large swaths of Iraq could become a no man\'s land, where terrorists will be free to work on W.M.D. projects and United Nations weapons inspectors cannot go to thwart them.'b'In a State of the City address this week that served as a kind of opening bell for his re-election campaign, Mayor Michael Bloomberg was lively, charming, persuasive and, at points, even tough. And he seemed right at home, even though he was not in Manhattan, but in the Bronx -- the borough of Jennifer Lopez, as he noted. When he spoke a little Spanish, the translation was less important than its real meaning. It was a brazen notice to a field of Democratic mayoral hopefuls in a decidedly Democratic town: be afraid -- be very afraid.'b'Mr. Bloomberg stressed the good news, of course, but he had quite a bit of it to stress. Crime has continued to go down since he inherited the city from the crime-fighting Rudolph Giuliani. Fire deaths are down, too, and even pedestrian and traffic fatalities are at new lows. The city is, over all, clean and safe despite four years of belt-tightening.'b'If the speech had a downside, it was that it ignored the downsides of the city. While the mayor offered homeowners another round of $400 property tax rebates, there was no explanation of how the city could afford that with another multibillion-dollar budget shortfall upon it. Mr. Bloomberg proudly pointed out that unemployment in New York was now even with the national average, yet the numbers belie a larger picture in which the gap between the haves and the have-nots has sometimes seemed to approach Dickensian proportions. The current and future economic pain disproportionately affects the minorities the mayor needs to win over, and he made at least a start with proposals for housing and jobs programs to help lower-income New Yorkers.'b'"Where once there was doubt," the mayor said, "New Yorkers believe again." Mr. Bloomberg was talking about the city, but the observation could have been about himself. The mayor once prided himself on lacking political skills, but now he jokes about giving Randy Johnson advice on handling the press and comfortably scolds Washington for shortchanging the city on antiterrorism funds. For New York, the state of the campaign is in high gear.'b'In trying to think through whether we should press ahead with elections in Iraq or not, I have found it useful to go back and dig out my basic rules for Middle East reporting, which I have developed and adapted over 25 years of writing from that region.'b"Rule 1 -- Never lead your story out of Lebanon, Gaza or Iraq with a cease-fire; it will always be over by the time the next morning's paper is out."b'Rule 2 -- Never take a concession, except out of the mouth of the person who is supposed to be doing the conceding. If I had a dime for every time someone agreed to recognize Israel on behalf of Yasir Arafat, I would be a wealthy man today.'b'Rule 3 -- The Israelis will always win, and the Palestinians will always make sure that they never enjoy it. Everything else is just commentary.'b"Rule 4 -- In the Middle East, if you can't explain something with a conspiracy theory, then don't try to explain it at all -- people there won't believe it."b'Rule 5 -- In the Middle East, the extremists go all the way, and the moderates tend to just go away -- unless the coast is completely clear.'b'Rule 6 -- The most oft-used phrase of Mideast moderates is: "We were just about to stand up to the bad guys when you stupid Americans did that stupid thing. Had you stupid Americans not done that stupid thing, we would have stood up, but now it\'s too late. It\'s all your fault for being so stupid."'b'Rule 7 -- In Middle East politics there is rarely a happy medium. When one side is weak, it will tell you, "How can I compromise?" And the minute it becomes strong, it will tell you, "Why should I compromise?"'b"Rule 8 -- What people tell you in private in the Middle East is irrelevant. All that matters is what they will defend in public in Arabic, in Hebrew or in any other local language. Anything said in English doesn't count."b'It is on the basis of these rules that I totally disagree with those who argue that the Jan. 30 Iraqi elections should be postponed. Their main argument is that an Iraqi election that ensconces the Shiite majority in power, without any participation of the Sunni minority, will sow the seeds of civil war.'b"That is probably true -- but we are already in a civil war in Iraq. That civil war was started by the Sunni Baathists, and their Islamist fascist allies from around the region, the minute the U.S. toppled Saddam. And they started that war not because they felt the Iraqi elections were going to be rigged, but because they knew they weren't going to be rigged."b"They started the war not to get their fair share of Iraqi power, but in hopes of retaining their unfair share. Under Saddam, Iraq's Sunni minority, with only 20 percent of the population, ruled everyone. These fascist insurgents have never given politics a chance to work in Iraq because they don't want it to work. That's why they have never issued a list of demands. They don't want people to see what they are really after, which is continued minority rule, Saddamism without Saddam. If that was my politics, I'd be wearing a ski mask over my head, too."b'The notion that delaying the elections for a few months would somehow give time for the "Sunni moderates" to persuade the extremists to come around is dead wrong -- literally. Any delay would simply embolden the guys with the guns to kill more Iraqi police officers and to intimidate more Sunnis. It could only convince them that with just a little more violence, they could scuttle the whole project of rebuilding Iraq.'b'There is only one thing that will enable the Sunni moderates in Iraq to win the debate, and that is when the fascist insurgents are forced to confront the fact that their tactics have not only failed to prevent the elections, but have also dug the Sunnis of Iraq into an even deeper hole.'b'By boycotting the elections, not only will they lose their unfair share of the old Iraq, they will also have failed to claim even their fair share of the new Iraq. The moderate argument among the Sunnis can prevail only when the tactics of their extremists have proved utterly bankrupt.'b"For all these reasons, the least bad option right now for the U.S. is to forge ahead with the elections -- unless the Iraqi Shiites ask for a postponement -- and focus all of America's energies not on appeasing the fascist insurgents, but on moderating the Shiites and Kurds, who are sure to dominate the voting."b'Despite my seventh rule, we have a much greater chance of producing a decent outcome in Iraq by appealing to the self-interest of the Kurds and the Shiites to be magnanimous in victory, then we do of getting the fascist insurgents to be magnanimous in defeat.'b'Children were one-third of the casualties of the tsunamis, and those who survived are suffering the worst effects of their aftermath. Untold thousands have been orphaned or separated from their families. Without protection or caregivers, they are at greatest risk for starvation and disease. They are also in danger from human traffickers, who have long operated in South Asia with near impunity, and who must have viewed the tsunamis as providing an opportunity to prey. Amazingly, these criminals seem to have been largely stymied by governments determined to prevent further tragedy. In a region devoid of cheer, this is at least a hopeful moment.'b'Soon after the wave hit, Indonesia -- where an estimated 35,000 children have lost one or both parents -- moved to protect young people in hard-hit Aceh, barring the departure of children from that province unless they are accompanied by verifiable family members. Thailand is doing the same, and other areas are imposing their own controls. The emphasis is on finding lost children, registering them and housing them until they can be reunited with their families. Adoptions -- which can sometimes be a front for trafficking -- have been suspended in several countries. Child protection officers are making themselves visible in villages.'b'These extraordinary efforts will no doubt save young people who might otherwise be exported for sale as sex slaves or sweatshop labor. While estimates vary, the nations of South Asia are notorious for supplying a large part of the hundreds of thousands of children trafficked every year as part of a $12 billion criminal enterprise worldwide.'b"The clampdown by countries hit by the tsunamis follows pressure from the State Department, Unicef and nongovernmental organizations, like World Vision and Vital Voices, which have ratcheted up their monitoring and joined efforts to protect the most vulnerable disaster victims. The enormity of the tsunamis' impact and attention from a watchful world seem to have helped local officials get past the corruption in their ranks and overcome the kind of denial that has in the past helped give traffickers a pass. As a result, there have been just a handful of confirmed reports of post-tsunami child trafficking."b'Welcome as these efforts are, they will mean little unless they evolve into a regionwide commitment to keep up the pressure to stop child exploitation, not just as part of the recovery from a disaster, but as an investment in a collective future.'b"To the immense gratification of party bosses, the Federal Election Commission exercised vigilance over last year's record campaign spending with all the industry of a croupier making sure the players have chips at the ready. Its greatest contribution to protecting the house odds was the mindboggling decision to allow a new pipeline for unregulated big donations. This fed shadow-party groups created expressly to get around the new controls on corporations, labor and fat-cat donors. A majority of party appointees to the F.E.C. gummed over the law strategically, once again performing as laissez-faire enablers of shady campaigners."b'It is past time to do something about the commission. Senator John McCain understandably wants it abolished. He makes a convincing case, supported by a federal judge\'s ruling last September that struck down 15 separate F.E.C. interpretations of the new campaign law as devices for creating loopholes, fostering corruption and inviting "rampant circumvention" by party hacks.'b'It will be a tall order to prod the current Congress, purring with fresh incumbency, into scrapping the commission for an independent body of true regulators who are invested in voters, not fund-raisers. Looking for a middle road, Washington reformers have begun circulating an intriguing proposal rooted in the expectation that four of the six F.E.C. seats will become vacant in the next three months.'b'Nominations have usually come from Congress by way of party leaders diktats, and thats the heart of the problem. But the law actually provides for the president to make the nominations if he chooses. In the campaign, President Bush ran afoul of the Democrats aggressive shadow-party groups, condemning  them and promising a crackdown.'b"Here's his chance. What could be more stunning for Mr. Bush's long-promised venture into bipartisanship than to pick meritorious F.E.C. nominees who are not beholden to big-money political leaders? Well, just as Mr. Bush has the power to nominate, we have the power to dream."b'Ukraine became the latest dropout from the "coalition of the willing" when President Leonid Kuchma formally ordered his generals on Monday to start pulling his country\'s roughly 1,600 troops out of Iraq. That was not a surprise because Ukraine has been heading for the door for some time. Still, given that Ukraine has been much in the news and that its contingent was the fifth-largest in Iraq (after the United States, Britain, Italy and Poland), the exit is worth noting.'b"It's the end of a cynical marriage of convenience. From the outset, there was an assumption that President Kuchma joined the coalition largely to buy slack from Washington over his notoriously corrupt rule. Then, in the recent brutal elections, the reformist and West-leaning Viktor Yushchenko, who defeated Mr. Kuchma's candidate, made pulling out of Iraq one of his issues. Mr. Kuchma, on the verge of leaving office, evidently saw no point in letting Mr. Yushchenko reap the plaudits from Ukrainians, who overwhelmingly oppose the war."b"Ukraine's withdrawal punches a major and potentially fatal hole in the much-ballyhooed multinational division that Poland volunteered to lead in Iraq. Spain was the first to drop out, and Ukraine had the second-largest contingent after Poland itself. The coalition has also lost Hungary, the Philippines and Honduras, among others, while Poland itself, long regarded as second only to Britain in its fealty to the United States, is talking of cutting back. Several other countries intend to reduce their participation in the next few months."b'Most of these countries provided token forces of a few dozen or less. But the Bush administration expended considerable political capital to beg or bully governments into joining the campaign to give it the semblance of an international operation in the absence of a credible international endorsement. Washington was especially keen to underscore the support of young democracies, which were supposed to be better capable of appreciating the blessings that Iraq was about to reap.'b"But in Ukraine, neither bad old dictators nor promising new democrats ever really backed the Iraq war. Like many other coalition members, the government weighed the potential benefits of making nice to Washington against the potential costs of not doing so and hoped it would all be over soon. Now that doesn't look likely, the exodus is on. When you go for facade, facade is what you get."b'One of the most alarming vulnerabilities to emerge after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks has been the Federal Bureau of Investigation\'s continuing inability to come up with a computer system that enables field agents to act quickly in sharing information and suspicions about where the next threats may emerge. In Senate hearings soon after the attacks, the bureau admitted that its 1980\'s computer technology could not search its files for cross-references to two words, like "flight" and "schools" -- a lethal shortcoming in light of where some of the terrorists prepared for their suicide mission. But a more effective system was in the works, the bureau promised lawmakers. They poured hundreds of millions of dollars into the effort, expecting the F.B.I. to meet its goal of having the antiterrorist centerpiece -- the Virtual Case File -- finally up and running by December 2003, a date already a year behind the original goal.'b'Well, not only has Virtual Case File slipped another year behind, but it also appears close to a virtual death.'b"Buyer's remorse is widely reported at the bureau, with some specialists estimating that the Virtual Case File's software effort, running at $170 million and counting, may have to be scrapped in favor of fresh starts in research and design by outside contractors. A prototype is undergoing a limited field test, but apparently only with the goal of measuring how short of the mark the F.B.I. has fallen. For four years, the bureau has been enmeshed in a $580 million project called Trilogy, which is aimed at modernizing all its computer systems for its 28,000 officers and other workers. But the crucial investigative piece to speed ground-level information-sharing remains as elusive as it is urgently needed."b"There are suggested root causes, based on whether the F.B.I. was starved for funds in the past, technophobic in its shoe-leather police culture or hobbled by a merry-go-round of five technology chiefs in two years. But they do not really matter in the face of the increasing wiliness of terrorists. While the bureau ponders the ESC button, the new Congress should grill the F.B.I.'s hierarchy about the mysteries and disappointments of Virtual Case File and when the nation can expect something real."b'Vioxx, Celebrex, Prozac. . . .'b'With all the problems and the bad publicity that drug companies have been facing recently, you might think that this would not be a good time for the Bush administration to toss yet another bonanza their way.'b'But the administration is like an ardent lover in its zeal to shower the rich and powerful with every imaginable benefit. So tucked like a gleaming diamond in proposed legislation to curb malpractice lawsuits is a provision that would give an unconscionable degree of protection to firms responsible for drugs or medical devices that turn out to be harmful.'b'The provision would go beyond caps on certain damages. It would actually prohibit punitive damages in cases in which the drug or medical device had received Food and Drug Administration approval. We know the F.D.A. has failed time and again to ensure that unsafe drugs are kept off the market. To provide blanket legal protection against punitive damages in such cases is both unwarranted and dangerous.'b'We learned just last month that Celebrex, the phenomenally popular painkiller from Pfizer, more than tripled the risk of heart attacks, strokes and death among those taking high doses in a national trial. Those findings, as noted in an article in The Times, "raised new questions about how well federal drug regulators protect the public and worsened drug makers\' already dismal image."'b'Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican who held hearings on recent F.D.A. actions, said, "At this point, no one can say with confidence whether the worst drug safety problems are behind us or ahead of us."'b'The Celebrex disclosure came on the heels of a decision by Merck to withdraw its arthritis drug Vioxx from the market after a study showed a link between long-term use of the drug and an increased risk of heart attacks and strokes.'b'Two weeks ago, an article in The British Medical Journal suggested that Eli Lilly &amp; Company had long concealed evidence that the antidepressant Prozac could cause violent and suicidal behavior. The company denies the accusation, which the journal forwarded to the F.D.A.'b'If the malpractice legislation so relentlessly touted by President Bush became law, Pfizer, Merck and Eli Lilly would be immunized against even the possibility of punitive damages arising from any harm to patients that resulted from use of these drugs -- as long as the companies followed F.D.A. rules. All three drugs were approved by the F.D.A.'b'The whole idea behind punitive damages is to severely punish the most egregious offenders. Huge punitive damage awards are supposed to serve as a deterrent to extremely bad behavior.'b'"It\'s an important system to have in place," said Joanne Doroshow, executive director of the Center for Justice and Democracy, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group. "The F.D.A. is certainly not doing its job. The legal system is a very important backup. It\'s really the last line of defense to ensure that the marketplace only has safe products."'b'If Mr. Bush has his way, that line of defense will be substantially weakened. With the possibility of punitive damages eliminated, drug companies will be even less vigilant than they are now about problems with products that pose a serious -- even fatal -- threat to patients.'b'The Democratic leader in the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada, was blunt on the matter. He said, "Congress should not be giving a free pass to big drug companies at a time when millions of Americans may have had their health put at risk by pharmaceutical giants."'b'The drug companies have an incredible racket going, as Marcia Angell, the former editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine, documents in her book "The Truth About the Drug Companies."'b'"Now primarily a marketing machine to sell drugs of dubious benefit," she wrote, "this industry uses its wealth and power to co-opt every institution that might stand in its way, including the U.S. Congress, the Food and Drug Administration, academic medical centers, and the medical profession itself. (Most of its marketing efforts are focused on influencing doctors, since they must write the prescriptions.)"'b"Among those co-opted is the president himself. Nothing's too good for the drug companies. If ordinary Americans got the same sweet treatment from this administration as the great pharmaceutical houses, we'd all be in a much better place."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b'The Supreme Court sent a jolt through the criminal justice system this week by ruling that judges are not required to follow the federal sentencing guidelines. The ruling, which makes the guidelines merely advisory, strikes a judicious balance between two conflicting interests: the goal of making sentences for similar crimes equivalent, and the desire to allow judges flexibility to take into account the circumstances of particular crimes and criminals.'b"There is already talk in Congress about trying to undo the Supreme Court's decision. That would be a serious mistake."b"Congress passed the sentencing guidelines in the mid-1980's, with bipartisan support, in an attempt to make criminal sentences in federal cases more uniform. While the guidelines have been praised for doing just that, they have also been criticized for contributing to the nation's prison overpopulation. Justice Anthony Kennedy, who is hardly a liberal on criminal justice issues, told the American Bar Association in 2003 that the sentencing guidelines were too harsh and inflexible. Some trial judges have complained that the guidelines have unduly tied their hands, compelling them to impose sentences that they believe did not fit the crimes before them."b"The guidelines became legally vulnerable last June when the Supreme Court struck down Washington State's sentencing guidelines. The court ruled that they violated the Sixth Amendment because they required judges to take factors into account in sentencing, like the harm caused by the crime, that were never submitted to a jury. Not unexpectedly, the court has now extended the logic of that decision to the federal guidelines."b'What is most notable about this week\'s decision is that, rather than tossing out the federal guidelines completely, the court ruled that judges must still "consult" them in making sentencing decisions. To ensure that this is not an empty formality, appeals courts will then review the sentencing decisions -- and the use of the guidelines -- for "reasonableness." It remains to be seen how this will work in practice, but the general idea of trying to impose uniformity but not rigidity is a good one.'b'In recent years, conservatives in Congress have complained about judges\' failing to follow the guidelines, and Congress has taken steps to monitor individual judges\' sentencing practices. One leader of that effort criticized this week\'s ruling as an "egregious overreach." Rather than racing to try to limit or reverse the decision, its opponents should wait to see how it works in practice. Otherwise, Congress could rush through ill-considered legislation that once again unduly tied judges\' hands.'b'If the new procedures outlined by the court turn out to undermine substantially the goals of the sentencing guidelines and make federal punishments widely disparate and unfair, there will always be time later for Congress to consider enacting new legislation. For now, everyone should step back and give federal trial judges -- as they consult the sentencing guidelines and are reviewed by appellate courts -- a chance to show that they can exercise their discretion wisely.'b'We must end Social Security as we know it, the Bush administration says, to meet the fiscal burden of paying benefits to the baby boomers. But the most likely privatization scheme would actually increase the budget deficit until 2050. By then the youngest surviving baby boomer will be 86 years old.'b'Even then, would we have a sustainable retirement system? Not bloody likely.'b"Pardon my Britishism, but Britain's 20-year experience with privatization is a cautionary tale Americans should know about."b"The U.S. news media have provided readers and viewers with little information about how privatization has worked in other countries. Now my colleagues have even fewer excuses: there's an illuminating article on the British experience in The American Prospect, www.prospect.org, by Norma Cohen, a senior corporate reporter at The Financial Times who covers pension issues."b'Her verdict is summed up in her title: "A Bloody Mess." Strong words, but her conclusions match those expressed more discreetly in a recent report by Britain\'s Pensions Commission, which warns that at least 75 percent of those with private investment accounts will not have enough savings to provide "adequate pensions."'b'The details of British privatization differ from the likely Bush administration plan because the starting point was different. But there are basic similarities. Guaranteed benefits were cut; workers were expected to make up for these benefit cuts by earning high returns on their private accounts.'b"The selling of privatization also bore a striking resemblance to President Bush's crisis-mongering. Britain had a retirement system that was working quite well, but conservative politicians issued grim warnings about the distant future, insisting that privatization was the only answer."b"The main difference from the current U.S. situation was that Britain was better prepared for the transition. Britain's system was backed by extensive assets, so the government didn't have to engage in a four-decade borrowing spree to finance the creation of private accounts. And the Thatcher government hadn't already driven the budget deep into deficit before privatization even began."b'Even so, it all went wrong. "Britain\'s experiment with substituting private savings accounts for a portion of state benefits has been a failure," Ms. Cohen writes. "A shorthand explanation for what has gone wrong is that the costs and risks of running private investment accounts outweigh the value of the returns they are likely to earn."'b'Many Britons were sold badly designed retirement plans on false pretenses. Companies guilty of "mis-selling" were eventually forced to pay about $20 billion in compensation. Fraud aside, the fees paid to financial managers have been a major problem: "Reductions in yield resulting from providers\' charges," the Pensions Commission says, "can absorb 20-30 percent of an individual\'s pension savings."'b"American privatizers extol the virtues of personal choice, and often accuse skeptics of being elitists who believe that the government makes better choices than individuals. Yet when one brings up Britain's experience, their story suddenly changes: they promise to hold costs down by tightly restricting the investments individuals can make, and by carefully regulating the money managers. So much for trusting the people."b"Never mind; their promises aren't credible. Even if the initial legislation tightly regulated investments by private accounts, it would immediately be followed by intense lobbying to loosen the rules. This lobbying would come both from the usual ideologues and from financial companies eager for fees. In fact, the lobbying has already started: the financial services industry has contributed lavishly to next week's inaugural celebrations."b'Meanwhile, there is a growing consensus in Britain that privatization must be partly reversed. The Confederation of British Industry -- the equivalent of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce -- has called for an increase in guaranteed benefits to retirees, even if taxes have to be raised to pay for that increase. And the chief executive of Britain\'s National Association of Pension Funds speaks with admiration about a foreign system that "delivers efficiencies of scale that most companies would die for."'b'The foreign country that, in the view of well-informed Britons, does it right is the United States. The system that delivers efficiencies to die for is Social Security.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b"Don't get too excited by the report that our mammalian precursors from the age of the dinosaurs may have been a lot tougher than once thought. The standard view of the mammals living in the Mesozoic era, some 280 million to 65 million years ago, is that they were mousy little critters, skittering around in the dark, eating bugs and cowering in holes while the real lords of the realm, the dinosaurs, stomped around overhead until they were wiped out by some extinction event."b"Now that long-held view of mammalian meekness is being challenged by two nearly complete fossil skeletons, newly discovered in China, of mammals that lived some 130 million years ago. One mammal was the size of a 30-pound dog. The other was smaller, the size of an opossum, but -- here's the delicious part -- its last meal had been a juvenile dinosaur, as evidenced by tiny dinosaur limbs, fingers and teeth still lodged in the mammal's rib cage eons later. What a turnabout. The supposedly meek mammals of that era actually dined out on the flesh of the reptilian lords of the land."b'But before we hoist ourselves up the ancient food chain, it is worth noting that the victim was a teeny tiny baby, only five inches long, and a plant eater at that. It was not one of those fearsome man-hunting carnivores that turned "Jurassic Park" into a nightmare. And while scientists cite some reasons for believing that the dino-eating mammal was a real predator (read: tough), it remains possible that it was only a skulking scavenger that gobbled up a dead baby dinosaur (read: garbage eater).'b'Calcutta - ON Jan. 1, six days after the Indian Ocean earthquake, I visited several emergency camps in Port Blair, the capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. This chain of 572 islets, less than 200 miles north of Sumatra, is a territory of India and was badly hit by the tsunami. One of the camps I visited was run by the Roman Catholic Church. It was housed in the Nirmala School and was presided over by a mild-mannered young priest, Father Johnson.'b'On the morning of my visit, Father Johnson was at the center of an altercation. It was not over deprivation or hardship -- there was more than enough food and water and clothes for all who had taken shelter. The problem was that the refugees, most of whom had lost not only their homes but every last possession as well, had spent the previous three days waiting anxiously, and no one had asked them where they wanted to go or when; none of them had any idea of what was to become of them and the sense of being adrift had brought them to the end of their tether.'b'In the absence of any other figure of authority they had laid siege to Father Johnson: when would they be allowed to move on? Where would they be going? And, most important, how could they rebuild their lives?'b'Their anxieties were founded not just in their experience of the tsunami but also in their separation from their safety net of identity and support. Despite the hundreds of miles of ocean that separate the islands from the Indian mainland, many of the relief camps in Port Blair have the appearance of miniaturized portraits of the nation. The people in the camps are for the most part, settlers from different parts of the mainland: Bengal, Orissa, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Only a small percentage of the refugees are indigenous to the islands and they are mainly from the Nicobar chain.'b'The settlers in the camps are almost unanimous in describing themselves as having come to the islands in search of land and opportunity. Listening to their stories, I found it easy to believe that most of them found what they were looking for: tens of thousands were able to make their way out of poverty and overcrowding and into the ranks of the expanding middle class.'b'But on the morning of Dec. 26, this hard-won betterment became a potent source of vulnerability. For to be middle class in India, or anywhere else, is to be kept afloat on a life raft of paper: identity cards, drivers licenses, ration cards, school certificates, checkbooks, certificates of life insurance and records of deposits.'b"An earthquake would have left remnants to rummage through; floods and hurricanes would have allowed time for survivors to pack up their essential documents. The tsunami, in the suddenness of its onslaught, allowed for no preparations: not only did it destroy the survivors' homes and families; it also robbed them of all the evidentiary traces of their place in the world."b'And this, more than anything, was the cause of the panic that morning at the Nirmala School. Of course, Father Johnson could give them no answers -- he was just as helpless as they were. The officials in charge of the relief effort had told him nothing about their plans. His school was supposed to reopen two days later. He had no idea how he was going to manage his students with more than 1,600 refugees camping on the grounds.'b"Realizing eventually that Father Johnson knew no more than they did, the refugees reduced their demands to a single, modest query: could they have some paper and a few pens? No sooner had this request been met than another uproar broke out: those who'd been given pens and paper now became the center of the siege. People began to push and jostle, clamoring to have their names written down. It seemed to occur to them simultaneously that identity was now no more than a matter of assertion, and nothing seemed to matter more than to create a trail of paper. Somehow they had come to believe that on this, the random scribbling of a name on a sheet of paper in a refugee camp, depended the eventual reclamation of a life."b'At the center of the crowd was a middle-aged Sikh, Paramjeet Kaur. She was a woman of determined aspect, dressed in a dun salwaar kameez. Noticing my notebook, she said: "Are you taking names too? Here, write mine down."'b'She told me she had come to the islands some 30 years before, by dint of marriage. Her husband was a Sikh from Campbell Bay, a settlement on the southernmost tip of the Nicobar chain. Like many others in the settlement, her husband belonged to a family that had been given a grant of land in recognition of army service.'b"At that time, Paramjeet Kaur's husband and in-laws were granted a small amount of farmland and a plot on which to build a residence. The settlement that grew up around them was as varied as the regiments of the Indian Army: there were Marathis, Malayalis, Jharkhandis and people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar."b'"There was nothing there but jungle then," said Paramjeet Kaur. "We cleared it with our own hands and we laid out orchards of areca and coconut. With God\'s blessing we prospered, and built a cement house with three rooms and a veranda."'b"The strip of land that was zoned for houses lay right on the seafront, providing fine views. It was no mere accident, then, that placed Paramjeet Kaur's house in the path of the tsunami: its location was determined by an outlook that owed more to Europe than to its immediate surroundings."b'After all, the sea poses little danger to the corniches of the French Riviera or the coastline of Italy. The Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal, on the other hand, are the breeding grounds of cyclones, the hurricanes of East. This is why a certain wariness of the sea can be seen in the ancient harbor cities of southern Asia: they are often situated upriver, at a cautious distance from open water.'b"As European tastes took hold, however, the pattern seems to have been reversed, so that it could almost be stated as a rule that the more modern and prosperous a settlement, the more likely it is to hug the water. On the island of Car Nicobar, for example, the Indian Air Force base was built a few dozen yards from the water's edge and it was so laid out that the more senior the servicemen, the closer they were to the sea."b'Although no one could have anticipated the tsunami, the choice of location for settlements is still shocking. Cyclones can cause surges of water to heights of 30 feet, and their effect would have been similar to what happened last month. But, of course, it is all too easy to be wise after the event: given the choice between a beach view and a plot in the mosquito-infested interior, what would anyone have chosen before Dec. 26?'b'So for Paramjeet Kaur, some 30 years of labor were washed away in an instant. "When we were young we had the energy to cut the jungle and reclaim the land," she told me. "We laid out fields and orchards and we did well. But at my age, how can I start again? Where will I begin?"'b'"What will you do then?" I asked.'b'"We will go back to Punjab, where we have family. The government must give us land there; that is our demand."'b'Some other immigrants -- office workers from Uttar Pradesh, fishermen from Andhra Pradesh, construction laborers from Bengal -- seconded her idea. They had all built good lives for themselves in the islands, but now, having lost their homes, their relatives and even their identities, they were intent on returning to the mainland, no matter what.'b'"If nothing else," one said to me, "we will live in slums beside the rail tracks. But never again by the sea."'b'Op-Ed Contributor Amitav Ghosh is the author of the forthcoming novel "The Hungry Tide."'b'Willsboro, N.Y. - AMERICANS watching John F. Kennedy\'s 1961 inauguration on television saw a scene worthy of Currier &amp; Ives. The marble facade of the Capitol gleamed in the sun, dignitaries wore top hats and dark overcoats and the cold air turned Kennedy\'s breath into white clouds. When he said, "Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe alike, that the torch has been passed to a new generation," his words actually appeared to be going forth into the exhilarating air.'b"No one knew that Kennedy was wearing long underwear so he could remove his topcoat and appear youthful and energetic, or that he had received months of tutoring from a speech coach, or that there was so much animosity among the platform's dignitaries that if grudges had weight, the entire contraption would have collapsed. No one suspected that Cardinal Richard Cushing had slowed his invocation because he believed that smoke wafting from beneath the podium came from a smoldering bomb meant for Kennedy, and he wanted to absorb the blast himself. (It was actually a short circuit.) No one knew that as Cushing droned on, Kennedy was probably improving his address in his mind. (He would make 32 alterations to the reading copy of his inaugural address as he spoke.)"b'Praise for his inaugural address came from across the political spectrum -- Barry Goldwater said, "God, I\'d like to be able to do what that boy did there" -- and was so extravagant it seems hard to believe the nation was even more divided than it is today. Kennedy had won the 1960 election with only 49.7 percent of the popular vote, yet a Gallup poll taken soon after his inauguration showed him with an approval rating of 72 percent. His own pollster, Lou Harris, put it at an astounding 92 percent. Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, perhaps hoping for similar ratings, have paraphrased lines from Kennedy\'s speech in their own inaugural addresses.'b'The most recent offender was George W. Bush, who in 2001 translated "Ask not what your country can do for you -- ask what you can do for your country" into "What you do is as important as anything government does. I ask you to seek a common good beyond your comfort; to defend needed reforms against easy attacks; to serve your nation, beginning with your neighbor."'b"Kennedy's imitators have failed to appreciate that the words in his address were only part of its magic. There was also the brilliant weather, Jackie Kennedy's wardrobe, Robert Frost's poem and a president-elect who had devoted almost as much attention to his appearance as his words -- darkening his tan in Palm Beach, and fussing over the cut of his suit and the arrangement of dignitaries on the platform."b"They have failed to appreciate something else, something that is nearly impossible to replicate. It was Kennedy's life -- and his close calls with death -- that gave the speech its power and urgency. Those who study the speech would do well to pay less attention to the words and more attention to how he wrote the speech and to the relationship between its words and Kennedy's character and experience."b'Kennedy composed the most memorable and poetic lines of his inaugural during a flight from Washington to Palm Beach 10 days before his inauguration. He summoned his secretary Evelyn Lincoln into his private compartment on his plane, the Caroline, and told her that he wanted to dictate some "ideas" for his inaugural.'b'He had in hand a draft written by his principal speechwriter, Ted Sorensen. Throughout his campaign, Kennedy had often carried a Sorensen speech to the stage only to abandon much of it in favor of his own off-the-cuff remarks. He did this again during the Palm Beach flight, and dictated several pages of his own material. It is in Evelyn Lincoln\'s shorthand loops and squiggles, then, that one first reads versions of "Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship," and "Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe alike, that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans -- born in this century, tempered by war, disciplined by a hard and bitter peace, proud of our ancient heritage."'b'Kennedy revised his inaugural in Palm Beach, without the assistance of the focus groups or speechwriting teams that have become de rigueur. He read it aloud to his wife, rewrote some passages on sheets of yellow legal paper and consulted with Ted Sorensen. He did not need much help revising his dictation because it was essentially autobiographical. It told his story, and that of his generation: "born in this century," "tempered by war," "disciplined by a hard and bitter peace."'b'Behind this structure lay five pivotal moments in his life: his travels through Europe on the eve of World War II, his experiences in the Pacific in 1943, his visit to a devastated postwar Berlin in 1945, his tour through Asia as a young congressman in 1951, and his encounter with the abject poor during the 1960 West Virginia primary. All but one of these had occurred overseas, a reminder that he was not only the most widely traveled man ever to become president, but someone who had experienced many of the defining moments of his life outside his own country.'b'Kennedy had a strong emotional connection with the passages inspired by his own experiences. Throughout his political career he had sometimes choked up at Memorial Day and Veterans Day ceremonies when speaking about those who had lost their lives in World War II. Among the passages he had dictated on the flight was this one: "Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty. The graves of young Americans who answered the call to service surround the globe."'b'Numbered among these young Americans, of course, were his brother Joseph Kennedy Jr., his brother-in-law Billy Hartington, and his PT-109 crewmen Andrew Kirksey and Harold Marney. These two sentences, a tribute to their sacrifices, would prove to be the emotional turning point of his inaugural, the moment when his voice assumed a passion he seldom revealed, inspiring the audience at the Capitol, touching even the hearts of his opponents, and, according to accounts from the time, sending half-frozen tears rolling down cheeks.'b'It is possible that a future president will evoke a similar reaction with an inaugural address, uniting Americans in a common purpose, and opening a new era of idealism, optimism and national happiness. But to accomplish this, he must do more than others have done: simply paraphrase or echo Kennedy. Instead, he will have to deliver an inaugural that so clearly engages his emotions, and so convincingly represents a distillation of the spiritual and philosophical principles guiding his life, that it will, in the end, awaken a deep emotional response from the American people, too.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Thurston Clarke is the author, most recently, of "Ask Not: The Inauguration of John F. Kennedy and the Speech That Changed America."'b"It's a relief to see the European Union agree to begin negotiations aimed at ending its huge government subsidies to Airbus Industries. Nobody wanted to see the United States and Europe start a trade war on behalf of their two warring civilian aircraft conglomerates, Boeing and Airbus. We hope this time the d\xc3\xa9tente leads to a permanent solution."b"Poised to file formal complaints against each other at the World Trade Organization over the subsidy issue, America and Europe instead agreed to try to negotiate a truce over the next three months. Welcome as that announcement was, it had a familiar sound. Back in 1992, Europe also agreed to move toward ending subsidies for Airbus, which has long been kept afloat by the governments of Spain, France, Germany and Britain. But corporate welfare to Airbus simply continued, leading to President Bush's threat last year to go to the W.T.O."b"The case against Airbus is a strong one. Since it was born in the 1960's, Airbus has received some $15 billion in so-called launch aid loans from European governments, which it has to pay back only if its planes sell. European governments said their infant industry needed help to compete against the more mature Boeing. But Airbus now sells more planes than Boeing; its market share was 54 percent in 2003, compared with Boeing's 46 percent."b'Airbus is correct in retorting that Boeing receives government help in the form of military contracts. But so does Airbus.'b'At various press conferences this week announcing the agreement to try to settle the dispute out of court, American and European negotiators characterized the coming talks in worryingly different ways. The Americans said they were pleased that Europe had finally agreed that the elimination of all subsidies was the ultimate goal. The Europeans said that while that was the goal, subsidies might be allowed as long as they were fair and open.'b"It's long past time for Airbus to fly on its own. The Bush administration had better make sure that this time, it gets the end of subsidies etched in stone."b"The honeymoon didn't last very long. Less than a week after Palestinians elected Mahmoud Abbas as Yasir Arafat's successor and the relatively dovish Labor Party joined Israel's cabinet, hopes for an early return to diplomatic dialogue have been abruptly crushed by the familiar one-two combination of a deadly Palestinian terrorist attack and a precipitous Israeli overreaction."b"Nobody expected Israel to simply ignore Thursday's attack by armed militants in Gaza, who used explosives, grenades and automatic weapons to kill six Israelis and wound five others. Nor can it be expected to negotiate with Palestinian leaders who equivocate in word or deed about terrorism. But that is not the situation Israel faces, as someone as canny and experienced in these matters as Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, must surely recognize. Yet yesterday Mr. Sharon ordered all Israeli officials to cut off contacts with the Palestinian Authority until it acts to curb such terrorist violence."b"In sharp contrast with Mr. Arafat, Mr. Abbas has been clear and unwavering in his view that anti-Israeli violence has been and continues to be extremely harmful to the Palestinian cause. For that reason, the Gaza militants behind Thursday's attack struck not only at their Israeli victims, but also at Mr. Abbas's new and not yet fully consolidated political leadership. In choosing to respond by cutting off all Israeli contacts with the Palestinian Authority, Mr. Sharon has become their unwitting ally."b'Getting a grip on Palestinian terrorism requires action in at least two areas. One of these, rebuilding the shattered Palestinian police forces, has barely begun. The other, demonstrating to skeptical Palestinians that nothing can be gained through terrorism but a great deal through peaceful negotiations, will now have to wait until diplomatic contacts are resumed. We hope that at least some of the good will that was in the air earlier this week can survive that wait.'b"Major League Baseball officials and union leaders are preening with satisfaction over their supposedly tough new policy to test and punish players caught bulking up on steroids. But their much ballyhooed policy is tough only in comparison with the pathetically toothless policy previously in force. Even if the new rules are ratified by the players' union in a coming vote, as seems likely, professional baseball will lag far behind the Olympic movement and the National Football League in cracking down on athletes who try to cheat their way to victory with performance-enhancing chemicals."b"The players' union, which has long resisted efforts to root out drug cheats, had little choice but to retreat a bit after a federal grand jury reportedly heard evidence that several stars had been taking steroids, and a clamor rose in Congress for federal legislation to clean up the sport. The solution the union leaders have now agreed to calls for testing all players at least once a year and for random tests, both in season and out of season. It also expands the list of banned substances but ducks any action on amphetamines, perhaps the most widely abused substance in professional baseball."b'The real shame of the new rules is the absurd lightness of the penalties. The first time a player is caught, he gets a slap on the wrist: a 10-day suspension without pay, which amounts to a minivacation in the long baseball season. The next two test failures bring 30-day and 60-day suspensions. Only after a fourth offense is a player suspended for a full year.'b"By contrast, Olympic track athletes get a career-threatening two-year suspension the first time they are caught and face a lifetime ban the second time, not to mention the loss of medals won with drug assistance. We'll know baseball is serious when it starts to excise the home-run records of steroid-assisted batters."b'Over the past 30 years, the fraction of women over 40 who have no children has nearly doubled, to about a fifth. According to the Gallup Organization, 70 percent of these women regret that they have no kids.'b"It's possible that some of these women regret not having children in the way they regret not taking more time off after college. But for others, this longing for the kids they did not have is a profound, soul-encompassing sadness."b'And it is part of a large pattern. Most American still tell pollsters that the ideal family has two or three children. But fewer and fewer Americans get to live in that kind of family.'b'Why?'b"For some, it's a question of never finding the right person to have kids with. Others thought they'd found the right mates, but the relationships didn't work out. Others became occupied with careers, and the child-rearing part of their lives never got put together."b'But there is also one big problem that stretches across these possibilities: Women now have more choices over what kind of lives they want to lead, but they do not have more choices over how they want to sequence their lives.'b"For example, consider a common life sequence for an educated woman. She grows up and goes to college. Perhaps she goes to graduate school. Then, during her most fertile years, when she has the most energy for child-rearing, she gets a job. Then, sometime after age 30, she marries. Then, in her mid-30's, when she has acquired the maturity and character to make intelligent career choices, she takes time off to raise her kids."b'Several years hence, she seeks to re-enter the labor force. She may or may not be still interested in the field she was trained for (two decades earlier). Nonetheless, she finds a job, works for 15 years or so, then spends her final 20 years in retirement.'b'This is not necessarily the sequence she would choose if she were starting from scratch. For example, it might make more sense to go to college, make a greater effort to marry early and have children. Then, if she, rather than her spouse, wants to stay home, she could raise children from age 25 to 35. Then at 35 (now that she knows herself better) she could select a flexible graduate program specifically designed for parents. Then she could work in one uninterrupted stint from, say, 40 to 70.'b'This option would allow her to raise kids during her most fertile years and work during her mature ones, and the trade-off between family and career might be less onerous.'b'But the fact is that right now, there are few social institutions that are friendly to this way of living. Social custom flows in the opposite direction.'b'Neil Gilbert observes in the current issue of The Public Interest that as women have entered the work force, they have adopted the male model, jumping directly into careers. Instead, he suggests, it would be better to make decisions based on what he calls the "life-course perspective." It\'s possible that women should sequence their lives differently from men, and that women may need a broader diversity of sequence options.'b"Gilbert, who is a professor of social welfare at Berkeley, points out that right now our social policies are friendly toward this straight-to-work sequence and discourage other options. Programs like day care and flexible leave help parents work and raise kids simultaneously. That's fine for some, but others may prefer policies that help them do these things sequentially."b'It might make sense, for example, to give means-tested tax credits or tuition credits to stay-at-home parents. That would subsidize child-rearing, but in a way that leaves it up to families to figure out how to use it. The government spends trillions on retirees, but very little on young families.'b'I suspect that if more people had the chance to focus exclusively on child-rearing before training for and launching a career, fertility rates would rise. That would be good for the country, for as Phillip Longman, author of "The Empty Cradle," has argued, we are consuming more human capital than we are producing -- or to put it another way, we don\'t have enough young people to support our old people. (That\'s what the current Social Security debate and the coming Medicare debate are all about.)'b"It would also be good for those many millions of Americans who hit their mid-40's and regret not having kids, or not having as many as they would like. As it says somewhere, to everything, there is a season."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b"PHNOM PENH, Cambodia - Sex trafficking at its worst is the slavery of the 21st century, yet it has become one of the world's growth industries. To understand how brazen it is, step up to the second floor of the Chai Hour II Hotel here in the Cambodian capital."b"It's like an aquarium: beyond a glass wall are dozens of teenage girls in skimpy white outfits, each with a number. The customer orders a girl by number, and the manager delivers her a moment later to a private room."b'A Cambodian police report in my hands describes the Chai Hour II as a case "of confinement of human beings for commercial sex" and adds that it is also "a place for trafficking/sale of virgin girls." All told, the report says, 250 girls and women work in the six-floor labyrinth of cubicles.'b"So last month, Cambodia's top-ranking female police officer ordered a raid on the Chai Hour II and rescued 83 girls. They were taken to a shelter run by Afesip, an aid group mainly financed by Spain."b'But the next day, the trafficking tycoons turned the tables and raided the shelter. About 30 raiders, some wearing military clothing and at least one driving a car with military license plates, broke down the shelter gate, beat up one woman on the staff and took all the girls back to the brothel.'b'Aarti Kapoor, a legal adviser to Afesip, acknowledges that dozens of the girls genuinely wanted to return to the brothel; shame, drug addiction and a desperate need for money keep many in the sex trade. But dozens of others, she says, wanted to stay in the shelter but were forced back anyway.'b"To top it off, Cambodia's top police official reprimanded the female officer who had ordered the raid on the Chai Hour II and even briefly suspended her from her post."b"We've had narco-trafficking states; Cambodia may be becoming the first sex-slavery state."b'The U.S. State Department estimates that 600,000 to 800,000 people a year are trafficked across international borders, mostly girls and most of them for the sex industry. Many more, like the girls in the Chai Hour II, are trafficked within a country.'b'As it becomes a global industry, sex trafficking is increasingly controlled by organized crime, like the ethnic Chinese mafias in Asia, and the criminals use their profits to buy government officials. Cambodia had made progress against child prostitution in the last couple of years, but now the sex industry has struck back.'b"The Chai Hour is so bold that it drove some of the girls to the U.S. Embassy for a protest against Western interference. A lawsuit, nominally by the girls themselves (who say they're masseuses and entertainers rather than prostitutes), seeks $1.7 million from Afesip, in an apparent effort to drive it out of the country, and Afesip's staff has received many death threats."b'"This is very dangerous, and I\'m very scared about my security," said Pierre Legros, a founder of Afesip, who has hired eight bodyguards to protect his children. His wife, a Cambodian who also works for Afesip, has twice had guns held to her head.'b'I dropped by the Chai Hour II, explained that I was an American reporter and asked to interview the owner. He was "out." Teenage girls, looking about 15 and older, floated about, but the alarmed managers blocked me from interviewing them. A security goon made it clear that photos were out of the question -- but a pimp did politely serve me a cup of tea.'b'The State Department\'s office on trafficking, to its credit, has been jumping up and down ever since the raid on Afesip occurred. "It\'s unacceptable -- it\'s egregious," the office\'s director, Ambassador John Miller, told me this week. "This was government complicity."'b'But nothing will happen unless we get higher-level outrage in Washington and other foreign capitals.'b"President Bush has done more than his predecessors in making sex trafficking an issue, and his State Department has done a first-rate job exerting pressure -- but there's so much more that we could do. The Bush administration could put a real dent in sex trafficking if we were to treat it as firmly as we do, say, pirated movies, and this brazen incident in Cambodia would be a fine place to start."b'In the 19th century, the civilized world recognized that slavery was a moral blot on humanity and rose up against it. So why should we acquiesce in 21st-century slavery, when 15-year-old girls are imprisoned in brothels and sentenced to death by AIDS? Those kids in the Chai Hour II Hotel have nowhere else to turn, and their lives are in our hands.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b'Pressed by rising costs, the states are scrambling for ways to keep millions of people who are released from jails and prisons each year from coming back. An obvious first step would be to abolish senselessly punitive laws that make it difficult for felons to reconstruct their lives, like those in all 50 states that bar ex-convicts from occupations that have nothing at all to do with their crimes. Another prudent step would be to create high-quality programs that provide newly released people with counseling and job placement. Perhaps most crucially, those who qualify need assistance in getting back their federal disability and Medicaid benefits; inmates typically lose such benefits when they find themselves locked up for 30 days or more.'b'The loss of benefits is especially devastating for the mentally ill, who make up one-sixth of the prison population and who are particularly susceptible to recidivism. Most of them get psychiatric drugs and treatment for the first time in jail. They often improve quickly, but deteriorate just as fast when they are released without being re-enrolled in federal disability programs or Medicaid, which would give them access to medication and psychiatric care. Homeless, delusional and out of control, they are inevitably rearrested for behaviors related to their illnesses. Many of them come back to jail so regularly that corrections workers call them "frequent fliers."'b'Impoverished people who suffer from mental illnesses and other serious disabilities are entitled to Supplemental Security Income assistance, handled through the Social Security Administration. In many states, people who are declared eligible for Social Security-based benefits are automatically enrolled in Medicaid, which in turn provides mentally ill people with care and drugs.'b"Federal law requires that people be suspended from S.S.I. benefits when they land in jail for even a short time. The federal government diligently enforces the suspension rules -- and even pays a small bounty to the prisons and jails in exchange for notice that a beneficiary has been incarcerated. But the institutions are offered no incentives to report that inmates are about to be released and need to have their benefits restored. Moreover, the rules governing the program are so vague and complicated that most prison officials don't understand them."b'A similar situation has developed with Medicaid, which bars states from receiving federal matching funds for treatment given to inmates except in acute cases requiring hospitalization. The federal government envisioned an arrangement under which Medicaid benefits would be suspended during incarceration and resumed upon release. But the states have resorted to terminating inmate eligibility outright and allowing inmates, including the mentally ill, to leave custody without access to care.'b'The states, which are already being shortchanged by the federal government on Medicaid, got another scare recently when the Bush administrated suggested that it might shift even more of the burden. Pressed for money, the states have clearly opted to save dollars by taking inmates off Medicaid rolls and leaving them off for as long as possible.'b'But mentally ill inmates who are dumped onto the streets without access to care drive up incarceration costs by going back to jail again and again. The smarter approach would be to ensure that eligible inmates had disability and Medicaid benefits in hand before they left jail. Setting up the new administrative process might not be easy, but it would more than pay for itself down the line.'b"La Ca\xc3\xb1ada, Calif. - AS President Bush prepares to deliver his second inaugural address on Thursday, he has choices to make. Will he speak about security in Iraq or Social Security at home? With Mr. Bush experiencing the lowest approval ratings for a re-elected president since World War II, the stakes for his second inaugural address are high. Yet the expectations are low: of the 15 second-term inaugural addresses this country has heard, only Abraham Lincoln's has stood the test of time."b'There is a better record for first inaugural addresses: Thomas Jefferson, Lincoln, Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy are at the front rank of presidents who have offered memorable ones. So what goes wrong the second time around? Three problems stand out.'b'First, a strong sense of personal triumph has dominated the opening paragraphs of second inaugural addresses. Most have begun with a steady staccato of "I," "I," "I." First-term presidents have worked hard to be inclusive in their speeches. Jefferson set the pattern in 1801 when he declared, "We are all Republicans, we are all Federalists."'b'Second, speeches at second inaugurations have generally concentrated on the problems of government. Although both of Ronald Reagan\'s inaugural addresses focused on the economy, the first was optimistic and idealistic, referring to the "right to dream heroic dreams." The second got bogged down in a discussion of budget and tax code.'b'Third, the second time around, addresses have generally been longer and, often, long-winded. The most recent second inaugural speech, by Bill Clinton in 1997, was more than one third longer than his speech at the first inauguration. But he was following a pattern that began with Jefferson, who also went long in his second speech, spending considerable time talking about expenses and revenues.'b"Abraham Lincoln began his second term with a speech that was exceptional on all three counts. While Lincoln's first inaugural address was more than 3,600 words, the second was only 701 words, the shortest second inaugural speech after George Washington's."b'Second, Lincoln used personal pronouns only twice in his speech -- in the first paragraph and then never again. He directed all of his words away from himself. The Civil War was just ending, and speaking to a nation riven by it, he steadfastly used inclusive language.'b'Instead of "I," Lincoln spoke of "all" and "both." In recounting the events of the past four years he had an opportunity to demonize the South, but he did not take it. Rather, he credited the best intentions of the people of the South. As Lincoln recalled the coming of the Civil War, he was inclusive in assigning responsibility for it, saying, "All dreaded it -- all sought to avert it." When Lincoln shifted from political to theological language, he continued the pattern of inclusiveness: "Both read the same Bible, and pray to the same God."'b'President Bush will join James Madison and Lincoln as the only presidents to deliver second inaugural addresses in the midst of war. When Mr. Bush spoke of "the enemies of liberty and of our country" in his first address, no one imagined those enemies as terrorists who would unleash a deadly attack on the United States just eight months later. Now, a nation engulfed in a new kind of war is the formidable context for President Bush\'s second inaugural address.'b'An ancient Chinese proverb says, "First time strangers; second time friends." Almost every president, no matter his previous positions, begins his term of office somewhat as a stranger. The second time around, Lincoln spoke more as a "friend," asking his fellow citizens, in deeply emotive words, to act "with malice toward none, with charity for all."'b'President Bush has choices to make in his second address. Will he be a "friend" who understands us better today than he did four years ago?'b'A second inaugural address provides a special opportunity for a president. Speaking to a nation that is deeply divided, the greatest choice President Bush confronts is how to bring a genuine sense of inclusiveness, an "all" and a "both."'b'Op-Ed Contributor Ronald C. White Jr. is the author of "The Eloquent President: A Portrait of Lincoln Through His Words."'b'In the first two weeks of January, at least 202 people died as a result of the insurgency in Iraq. The killings have been indiscriminate. The dead include Iraqi officials, police officers, civilians and, of course, Iraqi, American and coalition soldiers. The attacks shown here took place across the country, but there is a clear concentration in the so-called Sunni Triangle, which stretches from Tikrit in the north to Baghdad in the east and to Falluja and Ramadi in the west.'b'While the daily toll is noted by the news media in headlines and video clips, many Americans have a hard time incorporating these individual pieces of information into a coherent image over time. 'b'This map, based on Pentagon data and news reports, shows the number killed and wounded since Jan. 1.'b" Because of the limits placed on reporters and the military's need to inform families, there may have been additional casualties during this period that are not noted here. The map also does not include Iraqi civilians accidentally killed by coalition forces. Still, it is our attempt to visually depict the human cost of a fortnight in an embattled land."b"The City Council finally got its one real shot at reshaping the Bloomberg administration's proposal to redevelop the Hudson Yards on the Far West Side of Manhattan, and made it count. Although big pieces of the grand plan -- including the dreadful and overpriced football stadium for the Jets -- were long ago craftily placed outside its oversight, the Council managed to leverage its considerable power over rezoning."b"The result is a better deal on affordable housing, as well as a savings of as much as $1 billion in financing costs. The plan, which Mayor Michael Bloomberg has accepted, demonstrates why still more public review of the administration's vision is needed."b"The housing component of the compromise will ensure diversity and is a clear plus. Thanks to pressure from the Council and housing advocates, the administration's original formula for 16 percent in affordable housing was increased to an impressive 28 percent, 3 percent of which would be in existing buildings. When the goals are met, about 3,500 apartments will be reserved for New Yorkers making low, moderate and middle incomes, ranging from well under $50,000 to as much as $104,000 for a family of four. Builders of both rentals and condominiums must agree to include some of these units."b'Current residents of the 59-block area will also reap rewards. Christine Quinn, who represents the West Side district in the Council, won a $14 million expansion of Public School 51, which will be needed to accommodate so many new families. Add in the proposed extension of the No. 7 subway line, and the components are falling in place to convert the farthest reaches of the West Side into a thriving neighborhood.'b'The Bloomberg administration had planned to borrow $4 billion to pay for all the improvements, and to delay payments on the debt until the development could begin producing tax revenue. Council Speaker Gifford Miller and the city comptroller, William Thompson, reasonably objected to that idea, which could have left the city piling up new interest obligations for years. Under the compromise plan, the city will borrow $3 billion and make payments earlier through its operating budget. The effect would be a savings of at least hundreds of millions of dollars.'b'New Yorkers should be happy that at last some public light has been shed on the West Side project, where plans have been proceeding for years within the Bloomberg administration with very little outside input. But not every part of the agreement was sunny. While commercial density was reduced about 14 percent, to 24 million square feet, that is still more than enough to make 11th Avenue rise like the Rockies, but without the picturesque slopes and peaks. River views would be hidden from the rest of the city.'b'And while the Council got an administration commitment that there will be no financial connection between the stadium and the rest of the West Side, the rezoning itself could be seen as a victory by stadium backers, who interpret any forward action on the West Side as movement toward their misguided goal.'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b"THE year is not off to a good start at the Plaza Hotel, with the news late in December that three of its restaurants were set to close this month. More unsettling, with the $675 million sale of the hotel to Elad Properties, a real estate firm that plans to convert most of the rooms into condominiums, the fate of the Plaza's lobby and other public spaces is anyone's guess."b'Among these public spaces are two irreplaceable interiors, the 97-year-old Oak Room and the 83-year-old Ballroom. Contrary to popular belief, they do not have landmark protection. Although the Plaza is both a city and a National Historic Landmark, only the Beaux-Arts facade of the building is so designated. The new owners are free to do with the interior as they wish.'b"The Oak Room is by far the hotel's most significantly historic space, virtually unchanged since the day the Plaza opened for business, Oct. 1, 1907. It was then known as the Men's Bar, an all-male enclave said to be the favorite room of the hotel's architect, Henry J. Hardenbergh. Its German Renaissance design features walls of sable-dyed English oak, frescoes of Bavarian castles, faux wine casks carved into the woodwork and a grape-laden chandelier topped by a barmaid hoisting a stein. Twenty-foot-high ceilings provide the wow factor."b'The only significant alteration to the space came with the onset of Prohibition in 1920, when the bar proper was removed and the room shuttered. It was used for storage until 1934, when it was reborn as a restaurant and formally named the Oak Room. For the next 70 years, it was patronized by some of the most celebrated folk of the 20th century.'b'Among them was George M. Cohan, the Broadway hyphenate, a composer-playwright-actor-producer-theater owner, and the only person ever awarded a Congressional Medal of Honor for a song, the rousing World War I anthem, "Over There." Cohan made the Oak Room his pretheater headquarters, his preferred table being a booth in its northwest corner. Offering a fine view of all comings and goings, it became known as the Cohan Corner, where the great man was courted by theatrical types looking for work. After his death in 1942, a bronze plaque was installed to commemorate his tenure; it still hangs there today.'b"When the National Organization for Women decided to challenge the men-only policies at restaurants and clubs, it chose the Oak Room, which refused to serve women at lunch on weekdays, as a test case, knowing the kind of upscale publicity it would lend to the cause. One day in February 1969, Betty Friedan and several other women swept past the Oak Room's ma\xc3\xaetre d'h\xc3\xb4tel and sat down at a table. The waiters' response was to remove the table, leaving the women sitting awkwardly in a circle. A man at a nearby booth offered breadsticks, which were declined, and the group decamped to form a picket line in front of the hotel. The action garnered a flurry of press coverage, and four months later the Oak Room's longtime policy was overturned."b'Film appearances (in "Arthur" and "Scent of a Woman," among others) further embellished its fame, but in recent years the dining room has not been profitable. On the other hand, the adjoining Oak Bar has been a moneymaker since Conrad Hilton opened it in 1945 (and remains open). Perhaps the solution would be to restore the Oak Room to its earliest incarnation as a barroom and merge it with the Oak Bar, resulting in one of the most spectacular watering holes in the city.'b'The fate of the Plaza\'s Ballroom, the site of countless rites of passage for more than 80 years, similarly hangs in the balance. Built in 1921 as part of a hotel expansion, its place in history was secured on the night of Nov. 28, 1966, when Truman Capote held his famous Black and White Ball there. Capote chose the space because it was "the only beautiful ballroom left in New York," and along with an exclusive, eclectic guest list, a strict black-and-white dress code and the novelty of wearing masks, the party was a roaring success. Magnified by the hyperbolic atmosphere of the 1960\'s, the Black and White Ball became a leading contender for Party of the Century.'b'Of course, the Ballroom has been the site of many other functions -- weddings, benefits, proms, coming-out parties, press conferences, award dinners -- and even housed servicemen on cots during the hotel-room shortages of World War II. While newer spaces have appeared on the scene, few can match the feel of this gilded treasure. Indeed, the number of vintage luxury hotel ballrooms can be counted on the fingers of one hand: besides the Plaza, only those of the Pierre, the St. Regis and the Waldorf-Astoria remain.'b"So it's time for New Yorkers to wake up and speak up to save these two historic spaces. The city would not be the same without them."b'Op-Ed Contributor Curtis Gathje is author of "At the Plaza: An Illustrated History of the World\'s Most Famous Hotel."'b'Correction:  January 23, 2005, Sunday  An Op-Ed article last Sunday about the Plaza Hotel misstated details about an award given to the songwriter George M. Cohan. He won the Congressional Gold Medal, an award also given to other songwriters. He did not win the Congressional Medal of Honor.'b'At a time when American politics sometimes seems polarized to the point of paralysis, two men who could end up running against each other for governor of New York found common cause this week on an issue of importance to all Americans: clean air.'b"At a joint news conference in Albany, Gov. George E. Pataki and Attorney General Eliot Spitzer announced two agreements that will greatly reduce pollution from six upstate coal-fired power plants. Emissions of nitrogen oxide, the main precursor of urban smog, will be reduced by 18,000 tons -- the equivalent of removing 2.5 million cars from New York's roads. Emissions of sulfur dioxide, which causes the acid rain that has been so harmful to the Adirondacks and other northeastern forests, will decrease by more than 123,000 tons a year -- the equivalent of mothballing every diesel truck and bus operating in the United States."b"These were, in short, filthy plants, accounting for more than one-fifth of the state's nitrogen oxide emissions and fully half of its sulfur dioxide emissions, and any living creature downwind of these plants should be glad that their owners have agreed to clean them up. The two biggest are the Huntley and Dunkirk plants in western New York, currently owned by NRG Energy. The other four are in the Finger Lakes and Southern Tier regions and are now owned by AES. The companies will install new pollution control equipment, switch to cleaner-burning coal and shut down several antiquated boilers."b"Apart from helping New Yorkers breathe more easily, the agreements provide further evidence of the usefulness of the federal Clean Air Act, and in particular one crucial provision that the Bush administration has been trying to get rid of since it came into office. The provision, known as New Source Review, requires older power plants to install pollution controls when they make major modifications. Working with the state's Department of Environmental Conservation, Mr. Spitzer's investigators found that the six upstate New York plants had undergone such modifications without installing the legally mandated controls."b"This week's settlements build on a campaign that Mr. Spitzer began in 1999 to bring the New Source Review provision to bear on power companies east of the Mississippi that had been making major upgrades and portraying them as routine maintenance in order to dodge the Clean Air Act. Pollution floating from these plants into New York on the prevailing winds has made it almost impossible for the state to meet federal clean air standards."b'The attorney general and the Environmental Protection Agency have sued more than 50 plants altogether. Responding to industry complaints, the Bush administration moved in late 2003 to weaken New Source Review beyond recognition. The matter is now in court, where Mr. Spitzer and others are fighting to preserve the law.'b'The settlements bring credit not only to Mr. Spitzer but to Mr. Pataki, who has built a strong record on environmental matters and has not been afraid to drop the regulatory hammer on industry, much to the annoyance of his friends in the White House. Indeed, should they end up as opponents, clean air is one issue on which Mr. Pataki and Mr. Spitzer will have a hard time upstaging one another.'b'If you are like most people, your sadness over losing, say, $1,000, would be twice as great as your happiness at winning $1,000. That all-too-human tendency to feel the pain of a loss more deeply than the joy of a gain is called "loss aversion" and is one of the central discoveries of behavioral economics -- a branch of the dismal science that recognizes that when it comes to money, people are motivated by various impulses that are measurable and even predictable, but seldom rational.'b'Behavioral economics has vital implications for retirement savings. But in his zeal to privatize Social Security -- a quest which is itself driven more by ideology than economics -- President Bush is obscuring better approaches to a comfortable retirement for all Americans.'b'We all know that the benefits from Social Security do not provide enough income for a comfortable old age. But they do provide a guaranteed basic level of financial stability for all old people and, in so doing, enhance the socioeconomic well-being of everyone. And for the large majority of old people for whom Social Security makes up more than half of income, it is the difference between destitution and the ability to live with dignity. Clearly, the reliability of the income stream is critical. Mr. Bush does not want you to believe that such social and financial stability is possible. In a forum last Tuesday aimed at persuading "younger folks" to support privatization, he said that Social Security would be "flat broke" in the coming decades. That is false. The system\'s trustees expect that even if nothing whatsoever is done, the current system will be able to pay full benefits until 2042, when it will be able to pay 70 percent of the promised benefits. The independent Congressional Budget Office is even more optimistic. Of course, no one is suggesting that no reforms be made. But modest, straightforward tax increases and benefit cuts, phased in over generations, are all it would take to bolster the current system.'b"As the Social Security safety net is strengthened, it is also essential for government and business to work together to make it easier for everyone in the work force to increase personal savings. Unfortunately, the coming fight over the president's plan for privatization will very likely draw attention away from the simple and uncontroversial changes that would help people prepare on their own for their retirement years, including:"b'AUTOMATIC ENROLLMENT -- About half of employees work for employers who provide 401(k) retirement savings plans. But only three-quarters of eligible employees participate, and of those, participation is steeply skewed toward high earners.'b'The evidence from research is overwhelming that participation increases significantly if employees are automatically enrolled in the 401(k), rather than being required to sign up, as is usually the case. (Employees would be free to opt out if they did not want to participate.) One typical study -- by Brigitte Madrian, an economist at the Wharton School, and Dennis Shea, compensation and benefits specialist at Aetna -- analyzed a Fortune 500 company that switched to automatic enrollment in early 1998. By mid-1999, overall participation increased to 86 percent from 36 percent. The jump was especially striking among low-income workers, with participation rising to 80 percent from 12 percent for people making less than $20,000 and to 83 percent from 24 percent for those making $20,000 to $30,000. Participation also soared among younger workers. Studies show that participation rates stay high once employees are enrolled.'b'Automatic enrollment overcomes procrastination, a natural response to something deemed painful, such as giving up some take-home pay to save for retirement. It also overcomes "status quo bias," which tends to keeps nonparticipants from opting into a plan once they\'ve passed up a chance to do so.'b"AUTOMATIC ALLOCATION -- The next obstacle for would-be savers is the explosion of choices within 401(k)'s and other retirement plans. A typical plan now lets employees choose among 15 stock, bond and cash accounts. Too much choice leads to paralysis, a response that is especially common among low- and middle-income savers. As a result, employees in the lowest 25 percent of earners generally invest most of their accounts in low-yielding money market or bond funds. An easy solution is to offer employees an option to have their contributions automatically invested in balanced, prudently diversified, low-cost funds."b'AUTOMATIC ESCALATION -- Over all, only 5 percent of employees contribute the maximum allowed by their plans. Status quo bias makes it unlikely that an employee will change a contribution later. Loss aversion deters an employee from increasing the percentage even after a raise, because an increased payroll deduction may be perceived as a pay cut. The fix is to enroll employees in a program that automatically increases the percentage of pay whenever they get a raise.'b'The Bush administration has put forth two fine ideas for increasing personal savings outside of Social Security, but has not pursued either to the fullest. One would let taxpayers instruct the Treasury to split their tax refunds, which average about $2,000 a year, between a checking account and a savings account. Alas, the administration has not enacted the proposal, even though it requires no new legislation.'b'The other positive initiative was enacted in 2001 and offers a matching tax credit for retirement savings by low- and middle-income taxpayers. Unfortunately, the credit suffers from several design flaws. For instance, only people who earn enough to have a tax liability qualify for the credit. That requirement eliminates 80 percent of the 60 million lowest-income filers. Expanding eligibility to that group would cost the government about $5 billion a year, bringing the total annual cost of the credit to a relatively small $7 billion.'b"For the most part, however, the administration's savings initiatives, such as the retirement savings account, are totally off the mark. Their main feature -- lofty new upper limits on the amount of savings that can be tax-sheltered -- has little or no effect on the vast majority of families and individuals. In 2001, the Government Accountability Office found that raising the contribution limit on 401(k) plans benefited fewer than 3 percent of participants, most of whom were making more than $75,000 a year."b"Social Security privatization and tax incentives for the affluent have another major drawback that endangers everyone's retirement security. Neither would add to national savings -- the sum of government and individual savings that is a key determinant of the nation's overall standard of living. Privatization would not add to national savings because every dollar that goes into a private account would be offset by the government borrowing needed to establish the private system. Tax incentives for the rich do not add to national savings because they simply induce wealthy people to shift current assets from taxable to tax-free accounts."b'Put more simply, with privatization and continued high-end tax breaks, the few would get richer as the many fall behind. Preserving Social Security while increasing savings outside Social Security is a better way to achieve a prosperous retirement.'b'Strontium-90, like most radioactive isotopes, is not something you want to brush your teeth with. It lurks in soil and groundwater and hides in bones and teeth, causing leukemia and other cancers.'b"This is why so much attention has been paid to two large plumes of strontium-90 that are creeping very slowly through the soil under Brookhaven National Laboratory. The lab, like most everything else on Long Island, sits atop the aquifer that is the island's only natural source of drinking water. The radioactive contamination is one of several lingering stains from Brookhaven's nuclear reactors, now closed, and local officials and community activists have fought hard to get the Energy Department, which runs Brookhaven, to clean it up."b"It's slow work, given the nature of the contamination and the complicated, expensive means of removing it. And it may become slower still, because the Energy Department is asking for more time. It says that a project envisioned to last 30 years would be better off lasting 70."b"Why? Under an agreement it reached in 2000 with the Environmental Protection Agency and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, the lab has been operating an array of wells and pumps to remove tainted water, filter out the contaminants and return clean water to the ground. The trouble, project managers say, is that when tainted water flows through the filters too quickly, the filters become clogged with other minerals and impurities. They are changing filters far more often then they expected, and that's expensive."b"It would be far better, the lab says, to slow the flow, save millions of dollars on filters -- and more than double the time the project will take. The public health threat is negligible to begin with, they say, because no one is drinking Brookhaven water anyway, and a delay will not make things worse. And given strontium-90's relatively short half-life of 29 years, the problem is getting better on its own."b'We can accept these technical judgments by the folks at Brookhaven, just as we welcome their efforts to keep neighbors informed about the messes they have made. These involve not only leaks of strontium-90 but also of radioactive tritium and bothersome quantities of industrial chemicals that are another threat to groundwater.'b"But we side with the well-informed environmental groups that have kept a close eye on Brookhaven's troubles for years. They are willing to accommodate the lab to a certain extent on the strontium-90 cleanup, accepting the judgment that it might make sense to extend the 30-year project by another decade or so. But they insist, rightly, that there is no good reason to prolong the project so drastically just because it is stickier than expected and the federal government does not want to spend the money."b"That could set a bad precedent for future cleanups at Brookhaven, which is going to be a dirty place for a long time. In 70 years, everyone arguing about this will probably be dead. That is too long to wait to restore the purity of a public resource as vital as Long Island's drinking water."b"HORRIFIED by scenes of the devastating tsunami that hit South Asia three weeks ago, people on Long Island are asking if a tsunami could do the same to them. The answer is yes, it's possible, but it's unlikely to happen in the near future. A better question would be, is Long Island prepared for a tsunami? And the answer to that is no."b'But first things first. As most people know by now, tsunamis are generated when something abruptly moves  a large volume of water in the ocean. This displacement can by caused by fault movement of  the seafloor or by a landslide into the ocean or on the seafloor. The displacement of the water produces  a series of waves that can travel unnoticed for thousands of miles at high speeds  until they hit shallow water and  pile up, reaching heights of 30 feet or more.'b'As seen last month in the Indian Ocean, fault movement  at a subduction zone, a region where one tectonic plate dives under another, can generate a giant earthquake and an oceanwide tsunami.'b"The good news for Long Islanders is that subduction zones are scarce in the Atlantic Ocean. But that doesn't mean the Atlantic is immune to tsunamis."b"The great Lisbon earthquake of 1755,  generated by a collision of the African and Eurasian tectonic plates, was followed by a tsunami that devastated the coasts of Portugal and Morocco,  where it killed as many as 100,000 people, reached the British Isles and crested as high as 20 feet in the Caribbean. The 1929 Grand Banks earthquake produced an underwater landslide that set off a tsunami that swept into bays along Newfoundland's sparsely settled southern coast, wrecking wharves, washing away houses and killing 27 people."b'So, how could Long Island get hit by a tsunami? One much-debated possibility  is a tsunami generated by the collapse into the sea of a flank of an active volcano in the Canary Islands. Wave modeling suggests that such a large landslide would produce a tsunami that could threaten the United States coast with waves of 30 feet or higher, though more recent modeling suggests that the size of the landslide blocks and thus the waves reaching American shores may be smaller than originally estimated. Given that in the last million years, dozens of landslides may have been shed by the Canary Islands, a trans-Atlantic tsunami caused in this way would probably  occur only once every 1,000 to 10,000 years.'b"What is more probable  for Long Island is  a tsunami produced by an underwater landslide off the coast. Geologists know from images of the seafloor that many large landslides have occurred along the continental slope. For the most part, we don't know when these landslides occurred or what caused them, but some probably were set off by large earthquakes like the Grand Banks one in 1929."b"There is some good news about this  possibility. First, large earthquakes rarely occur along the Atlantic Coast - perhaps once a century, on average. Second, this type of a  tsunami would affect a much smaller  area than one generated by a subduction zone as in last month's disaster, and its ability to flood coastal areas would be limited by its shorter wavelength. And third, an earthquake warns of the tsunami that follows, giving people time to escape to higher ground."b'So, from the historical record, it is known that tsunamis do occur in the Atlantic but not as frequently as in the Pacific. What is  not known is just how serious the tsunami hazard might be for the Atlantic Coast and places like Long Island and New York City.'b'A poignant lesson we can take from the disaster  in South Asia is that we should focus our attention on this problem without delay. Scientific research into the offshore causes and onshore effects of tsunamis would improve our understanding of where and when future Atlantic tsunamis might occur and how damaging they may be. Once we have a better understanding of the severity of the hazard, it will be possible to make prudent decisions concerning the deployment of a tsunami warning system in the Atlantic Ocean and the development of inundation maps and evacuation plans for coastal communities like Long Island. Because a tsunami traveling toward New York must cross the continental shelf, a wide and shallow swath of water where the waves would move slower than in the deep ocean, there would be some time - one to two hours - to issue and respond to a warning.'b'In the meantime, the public should be educated about the hazard and what to do in case of a tsunami. If several simple rules of tsunami survival had been widely known in South Asia last month, many lives could have been saved.'b'Efforts to understand the danger posed by an Atlantic tsunami and to reduce the risk to our communities require  sustained commitments from state and federal governments and ultimately from taxpayers. As a society, we must grapple with the question of whether it is worth investing in research and education - and, if necessary, the technology - to reduce the risk from a rare, but potentially costly, Atlantic tsunami. If you ask me, I say it is.'b"There's really no counting the roads you never expect to find yourself on. But you know it when you suddenly find yourself on one of them."b"I came upon such a route a couple of weeks ago in the midst of a cross-country drive: U.S. 84, from Lubbock, Tex., to Clovis, N.M. The fact is that once you're in Lubbock, the odds of ending up on Highway 84 are pretty good. We had planned on cutting across Texas farther north, through Amarillo. But a powerful winter storm -- the one that tied the country in knots that week -- pushed us south from Little Rock, Ark., where the ways divide. Instead of going through Oklahoma City, which was coated in ice, we drove through Texarkana and Dallas and Abilene instead, bound for Santa Fe and points west. Hence, Lubbock."b'So says the logic of the roads. We got up three mornings in a row, drove all day, and turned up in Lubbock. That city was nowhere in my thoughts when we pulled out of our driveway at home. Yet there we were, and happy to be there after another day spent in the interstate backwash of a wet winter storm. We had glimpsed a patch of blue sky for a moment in central Tennessee, but never once the sun. It was dark when we pulled into Lubbock, late -- on the far western edge of the Central time zone -- and it was dark when we rose the next morning, in the thick of a dense, freezing fog.'b'Lubbock lies at the eastern edge of the Llano Estacado -- the Staked Plains -- one of the strange, dire places in the American imagination. It was trackless once, a nearly featureless, grassy plain between the Canadian River to the north and the Pecos to the west, a place where the very idea of direction seemed to vanish, where every heading seemed equally unpromising. To me it had always been only a beautiful name -- Llano Estacado. Coronado had crossed it in his delusory wanderings, bewildered by its scale. I had filled in the promise of so much bareness, such a flat expanse of grass, with grim imaginings. To me, it was inhabited by wanderers doomed to lose their way and their horses and their lives.'b'The fog was dense, but there was no losing the track out of Lubbock. U.S. 84 angled northwest, and as the sun began to regain its grip it became clear that the settlers of the Llano Estacado had found plenty of water by mining the Ogallala Aquifer beneath it. This is one of the few places in America where you can still find a windmill repair shop. Dark brown cotton fields stretched away from us in every direction, the even terrain broken only by enormous loaves of cotton -- bales the size of semitrailers -- covered with blue tarps. In some fields the bolls still clung to the plants, and now and then a drift of cotton came rolling across the highway like miniature, bleached tumbleweeds.'b'And where the cotton fields ended, there stood enormous dairies, their cattle grazing on smooth, sod-like plains irrigated by prehistoric water from the aquifer below. It was as though the hillside pastures of Vermont had moved westward with the cattle that once grazed them. Despite the expanse of the plains -- perhaps because of them -- the agriculture we saw here was intensive, scaled to a strident immensity, as industrial in its nature as the oil fields farther south near Midland and Odessa.'b'Overnight the trees had taken on a thick coating of ice. The sparse groves around distant farmsteads glowed white in the accumulating light. The trees that leaned over the highway shed their ice in a wintry shadow on the brown pavement. Towns like Sudan and Muleshoe were overshadowed by their cotton gins, by the familiar feel that small farming towns always give off on a cold morning, no matter what the local crop happens to be. Day was rising with some new energy. By the time we got to Muleshoe, the hopes of seeing real sun -- a blue sky, horizon to horizon -- seemed more than just a pipe dream for the first time in nearly 2,000 miles.'b"The wonder of a road like that is plain to me. You can pull onto the shoulder, stop the car, and walk over to feel the cotton bolls or take in the effluvial aroma of the dairies. You can drive up the main street of Clovis and feel the bricks on the roadway rumbling under your tires, or contemplate the enormous Santa Fe sign marking the railroad tracks as you head back to the highway. No matter what you may think of where you are, no matter how you once imagined it, you are implacably there -- not where you used to be, not where you're going, but there. What you see along the way gathers inside you like a dust storm or a haystack or any other metaphor that seems appropriate to this tail end of the high plains."b'One thought stayed with me all the way west. How odd it is to live at this moment, when crossing the continent is so easily done, when the way across the trackless places is so plainly marked, when a plateau once noted for the scarcity of its water is now being watered from an unimaginably distant past.'b'Pittsburgh - THIS is what we should do about Social Security: At the same time we acknowledge that it is the most successful domestic program in American history, we should also admit that Social Security, in its present form, is unsustainable. And then we should come up with a plan that is different than what President Bush and most of the pundits are proposing.'b'We should ask ourselves what would be a worthy aspiration for the financial security of retired Americans in the years ahead. My answer is that we should establish a process that will produce a substantial annuity for every American at retirement age.'b'By substantial, I mean at least $1 million. In order to create a real, fully financed annuity of this size, people must begin saving when they enter the work force. The saving needs to be continuous, and it needs to be left intact so that compound interest can work its magic.'b'We can do this. We already have a process in place that requires that we give the government 12.4 percent of our income in the name of Social Security.'b"The problem with the current arrangement is that our contributions are a tax, not savings. So we should begin by agreeing that we are going to require all Americans to save, individually, to provide for their financial security in old age. After all, if we don't save on our own for our retirement needs, who will do it for us? Our neighbors? Our children? In a civilized society we have a responsibility to take care of our own needs so as not to be a burden on others."b'Yet we can also recognize that some people may work hard during their lifetimes, and save 12.4 percent of their income annually, and still not produce enough for a $1 million annuity when they retire. The federal government could then make annual, supplemental deposits to their accounts from its general revenues to make up the difference. Those of us who are more fortunate can help those who are not. (It is useful to remind ourselves that the federal government is "we the people" -- and the federal government doesn\'t have any money unless it takes it from "us the people.")'b'Let me define what I mean by financial security. Financial security begins with ownership of real assets; so the money saved each year in this plan would be the property of the person who saved it. I would use the existing Social Security collection process because it is already in place, everyone understands it and its costs are relatively low.'b"The money would then be invested in broad-based index funds with an objective of matching the overall rate of return for all investments in the United States. These funds typically have very low costs because they're not actively managed. That means there would be no windfall profit for stockbrokers in this system."b'Further to the definition of financial security: it means enough money in retirement for all needs -- food, clothing, shelter -- and including medical needs like prescription drugs.'b"If we could work toward this idea, we could reduce our current dependence on the political process for these necessities. When Congress passed and the president signed legislation last year expanding drug coverage in the Medicare program, many politicians acted as though they were granting us some great beneficence. But they don't have any money (or the benefits they pay for) to bestow unless they first take it away from us in taxes."b'As I write this I can imagine the chorus of pundits saying, "This isn\'t politically possible." Why not? Because it is too complicated for people to understand? Or because the only way to approach change in our society is through small incremental steps, like the president\'s tepid notion of a limited, voluntary diversion of Social Security taxes into small private accounts?'b'Baloney, I say. What stands between a truly worthy aspiration for our society and its realization is political leadership with the courage to dream big.'b"The social policy technocrats will have a more legitimate concern: how do we get from where we are to this new and better condition? While I was secretary of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and I worked on an idea to jump-start the changeover by borrowing enough money to put money into individual accounts now, beginning with the youngest workers. We did some very rough calculations that showed for $1 trillion, we could transfer the population from age 18 to the mid-30's into this new arrangement."b'The value of doing this is twofold. First, it hastens the transition to the new program for society overall. Second, the $1 trillion of borrowing now (to be paid from general revenues over the next 20 years) makes a substantial dent in the unfinanced liability of the current program.'b'As to the current program, everyone above the age of 35 could keep their current relationship with Social Security and their benefits intact. Their children, though, would have a better life. And that, after all, is the promise on which this nation has been built.'b"So there it is. Do we have political leaders who are interested in surpassing Franklin Roosevelt's achievement of 70 years ago?"b"Op-Ed Contributor Paul O'Neill was secretary of the Treasury from January 2001 to December 2002."b'If books were children, the ones in the Mount Vernon Public Library would be in foster care by now, and their parents locked up for neglect.'b"All through the library, Westchester's largest and most important, books are packed into carts, shrouded in sheets of plastic, hidden away behind locked doors where none but custodians ever go. Hundreds that were damaged by rain and mildew are gone, thrown out. The ones that remain in the old building -- once grand but now rotting, with brown-streaked walls and peeling paint, trash cans for catching drips, and bare concrete floor where sodden carpet was pulled up -- are imperiled every day that a complicated squabble over the status and future of the library remains unresolved."b"That the library's condition is a disgrace is beyond argument. The library director, Rodney J. Lee, says he has struggled for years to get the City of Mount Vernon to pay for repairs. His $3.8 million budget is at least a million dollars too low, he says. After the costs of salaries and health insurance, there is barely enough left to keep the lights on, much less to make a dent in the multimillion-dollar renovations that the building needs. Mr. Lee says he has had to raid the operating budget over the years to make repairs -- usually after rainstorms send new cascades down the walls, through the wiring and light fixtures and into the basement."b"The building's maintenance foreman, Jesse Vanlew, in fact, is forever on the alert for new leaks when it rains, even if it means unlocking the place at 3 a.m. Mr. Vanlew -- who spends a lot of his time at the hardware store, buying big rolls of plastic and tape -- does not have the resources to do this job. In poor Mount Vernon, where will the money come from to save this municipal treasure?"b"The strange fact is, a lot of money is already there. The city has floated more than $2 million in bonds to fix the roof and install air-conditioning (when it's hot, it's unbearable). Another $260,000 in federal money has been allocated. But very little has been spent. The thorough overhaul -- the one that will dry things out and restore some of the hardwood-and-stained-glass luster to this 1904 Andrew Carnegie library -- remains a plan on a desk somewhere."b"This is where the political squabbling comes in. For reasons too complex to go into here, the library has been a victim of a situation in which authority over the library is divided several ways, assuring that no one takes ultimate responsibility. The city controls the library's finances, but the school board owns the building and appoints the trustees. The state Department of Education, which charters public libraries, wants to change the way the library operates by putting its budget and leadership to a public vote. Mayor Ernest Davis and a majority of thetrustees have objected furiously, saying the state is trying to shroud the library with an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy. A legal battle looms."b"The mayor's critics have accused him of letting the library fall apart as the standoff continues. Though his administration gives every indication of wanting to do things on the cheap, Mayor Davis says he is committed to making necessary repairs. The condition of the building suggests otherwise."b'In the wake of U.S. aid to help Muslim and other victims of the recent tsunami, Colin Powell suggested that maybe, now that the Muslim world had seen "American generosity" and "American values in action," it wouldn\'t be so hostile to America.'b'Don\'t hold your breath waiting for a thank-you card. If the fact that American soldiers have risked their lives to save the Muslims of Bosnia, the Muslims of Kuwait, the Muslims of Somalia, the Muslims of Afghanistan and the Muslims of Iraq has earned the U.S. only the false accusation of being "anti-Muslim," trust me, U.S. troops passing out bottled water and Pop-Tarts in Indonesia are not going to erase that lie. It is not an exaggeration to say that, if you throw in the Oslo peace process, U.S. foreign policy for the last 15 years has been dominated by an effort to save Muslims -- not from tsunamis, but from tyrannies, mostly their own theocratic or autocratic regimes.'b"It clearly has not made much of an impression. So you will pardon me if I say that I don't care whether the state media in Saudi Arabia -- whose government gave far less to the Muslim tsunami victims ($30 million) than the amount spent by King Fahd's entourage on his last two vacations in Marbella (reportedly $100 million) -- say nice things about us."b'I believe the tensions between us and the Muslim world stem primarily from the conditions under which many Muslims live, not what we do. I believe free people, living under freely elected governments, with a free press and with economies and education systems that enable their young people to achieve their full potential, don\'t spend a lot of time thinking about who to hate, who to blame, and who to lash out at. Free countries don\'t have leaders who use their media and state-owned "intellectuals" to deflect all of their people\'s anger away from them and onto America.'b'Ah, you say, but the Europeans live in free-market democracies and they have become very anti-American. Yes, some of them. But for Europeans, anti-Americanism is a hobby. For too many in the Muslim world it has become a career.'b'I am sure that young Taiwanese, young Koreans, young Japanese, young Poles and young Indians have their views on America, but they are not an obsession. They want our jobs, not our lives. They live in societies that empower their young people to realize their full potential and to express any opinion -- pro-American, anti-American or neutral.'b"So I don't want young Muslims to like us. I want them to like and respect themselves, their own countries and their own governments. I want them to have the same luxury to ignore America as young Taiwanese have -- because they are too busy focusing on improving their own lives and governance, running for office, studying anything they want or finding good jobs in their own countries."b'The Bush team is certainly not fostering all this when it mismanages a war it launched to liberate the people of Iraq. Its performance has been pathetic, and I understand anyone on the right or the left who wants to wash his hands of the whole thing. Speaking personally, though, I am still hoping that these Iraqi elections come off -- out of respect for the Iraqis who have been ready to risk their lives for a chance to vote, out of contempt for the insurgents who want to prevent that and out of a deep conviction that something very important is at stake.'b'No, these elections won\'t change Iraq or the region overnight, and Thomas Jefferson is not on the ballot. But they will at least kick off what the Iraq expert Yitzhak Nakash calls "a real, Iraqi political process run by and for Iraqis."'b'That Iraqi political process "has to begin now to enable the U.S. to get out sooner rather than later," added Mr. Nakash, a Brandeis professor and currently a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center. "The U.S. must go ahead with the elections in Iraq, accept the likelihood that Shiites and Kurds will do well, and leave the door open to Sunnis to join as partners in writing the Iraqi constitution. We want a system there that answers to the aspirations of Iraqis, not Americans. That is the key to a legitimate Iraqi government."'b'Before the war, I said of Iraq, "We break it, we own it." Today, my motto is, "If they own it, they\'ll fix it." America\'s standing in the Muslim world will improve, not when we get a better message, but when they have more control. People with the responsibility and opportunity to run their own lives focus on their own lives -- not on us. More of that would be a very good thing.'b"Katonah - THE New Year's Eve arrest, in Scarsdale, of Paul and Christine Taxin because of underage drinkers at a party that went out of control is every parent's nightmare. We can all imagine it happening: you agree to let your daughter invite over a few of her friends. As time goes on her small party becomes mysteriously larger and more rambunctious. You are uncertain of how to stop it, or if you need to, or if you should. You know that if you throw everyone out, your daughter will pay a social price. To your relief, the police finally arrive to break up the party, but, to your horror, they arrest you. You're charged with first-degree unlawful dealing with a child, a misdemeanor punishable by up to a year in jail."b"We all know how hard it is to deal with teenagers and drinking. Alcohol has a huge and potent presence in our society, and most teenagers want to experiment with it. Legally, however, they can't. This law sets parents and children on opposite sides of a great divide, in a no-win situation. If you forbid your teenager to drink, then you are telling him that if he's going to be a part of his group, he must lie to you as well as break the law. If you give him tacit permission to drink (which you might -- after all, you drank as a minor, and you turned out all right), he understands that you both agree to flout the law. If you give him explicit permission to drink, then he knows that you are both openly breaking the law. And if you drink yourself, and if your child has ever seen you have one too many glasses of wine, hypocrisy enters the picture as well."b"The thing is that even the most responsible parents won't be reliable agents of the law in this case, because we're parents first. Our primary loyalty is to our children: they are ours, and we love them. It's unrealistic to assume that parents will enforce the law to its fullest extent, but that's what the law does. This means that a parent is complicit in law-breaking if he believes his 20-year-old is having beer with his friends and if he doesn't turn them in to the police. This law makes everyone into miscreants, and is guaranteed to fail."b"There is no safe, legal means of introducing our teenagers to alcohol. Most of us allow our children a little beer or wine at home (though even this is illegal, it seems) and then fervently hope for the best, knowing that they will experiment more, elsewhere, and that it will be illegal, too. Having a party with alcohol for them under your own roof (also illegal) is safe only for the children spending the night there. Everyone who drives home is just as dangerous, to himself and the community, as if he'd spent the evening anywhere else."b"We're in a predicament here, and there's no perfect solution."b"One local single father agreed to let his daughter have a party just for her girlfriends on New Year's Eve. He told a friend that he was going out, but didn't worry about them since they were all girls, after all, and they were spending the night."b"But what about their boyfriends, the friend asked, Don't you think they'll show up? The friend advised him to check on the party all evening, and to let the girls know that he would do so."b"The father told his daughter the plan, and guess what? She was furious. Don't you trust me? she asked."b"Only so far, is the answer. We trust you, but you probably want to do something that's against the law, and we'll both get in trouble."b'Teenagers will drink. They will break rules. They will sneak in liquor. They will sneak out windows. Parents are required to take a position somewhere between jailers and co-conspirators.'b"Still, certain lines must be drawn. If Dr. and Mrs. Taxin knew that alcohol was going to appear at their daughter's party they shouldn't have let her have it. But the law shouldn't punish the parents when teenagers have outmaneuvered them, nor should it set parents against their children. Singling out the Taxins for punishment is draconian, and it makes parental cooperation even more difficult."b"The law should recognize the parents' untenable position, and offer support instead of prosecution. In this particular case, the Taxins were only one set of players in an unfolding drama. If any parents are to be held responsible, then why not all of them? After all, every teenager at the party who drank was knowingly breaking the law. Why not bring them into it, too? But instead of threatening parents with jail, law enforcement officers should require attendance at group sessions to discuss the problem. And why not get the school involved? This is a community issue. It's hard for parents to confront their children alone; it's much easier if you're part of a collective, sharing advice and information."b"In any case, we need a better way to deal with this, because as long as teenagers are curious and enterprising, and as long as alcohol is widely used, and as long as it's against the law for minors to drink it, we all have a problem."b'Westchester Roxana Robinson is the author, most recently, of "Sweetwater."'b"San Francisco - ACROSS the country today, parades, rallies and church services will mark the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Participants usually think of this national holiday -- created against considerable opposition two decades ago -- as this country's first widely celebrated commemoration of the long struggle for racial justice. Not so. For many decades, beginning well over 150 years ago, both black and white Americans celebrated another such day: Aug. 1."b'The former slave and abolitionist leader Frederick Douglass called Aug. 1 "illustrious among all the days of the year." At the Concord, Mass., courthouse on Aug. 1, 1844, Ralph Waldo Emerson gave a major speech against slavery that the writer Margaret Fuller, in the audience, described as "great, heroic, calm, sweet, fair tears came to my eyes." On that day in 1847, 10,000 people assembled in Canandaigua, N.Y., to hear Douglass and others speak. Seven thousand people -- free blacks and sympathetic whites -- attended an Aug. 1 rally in New Bedford, Mass., in 1855. A few black communities in the United States continued to celebrate Aug. 1 until well into the 1920\'s. Today, in many Caribbean nations, the Monday after Aug. 1 is a national holiday.'b'Why the First of August?'b"Long before Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, another major nation had been the first to end slavery in the territory it controlled: Britain. And unlike American slavery, essentially brought to an end through the Civil War, slavery in the British Empire ended as the result of a huge popular movement -- whose early start, size and persistence dwarfed its counterpart in America. It's a story most in this country have long forgotten, although several generations of American slaves and their descendants knew it well."b'The British antislavery movement burst into being in 1787. Up to that point, few people in England had spoken out on the subject. But within months after a firebrand organizer named Thomas Clarkson convened a 12-man abolition committee at a Quaker bookstore in London, agitation swept the country. Within a few years, more than 300,000 Britons were boycotting sugar, the major product of the British West Indian slave plantations. Nearly 400,000 signed petitions to Parliament demanding an end to the slave trade. Olaudah Equiano, a brilliant former slave, wrote a best-selling autobiography and embarked on a five-year speaking tour of the British Isles. Thomas Clarkson rode 35,000 miles on horseback, gathering witnesses for parliamentary hearings and setting up local antislavery committees. In 1792, the House of Commons became the first national legislative body in the world to vote to end the slave trade.'b"That ban, however, did not become law, because the House of Lords balked. Then Britain and France began two decades of war, and wars are always bad for progressive movements. Still, the abolitionists did not abandon hope. In the early 1800's Clarkson toured the country again, and in 1807 both houses of Parliament banned the slave trade."b"With the death rate on plantations in the British West Indies very high, the abolitionists hoped that cutting off the supply of new slaves would quickly end British slavery itself. When this did not happen, Clarkson -- now in his 60's -- spent 13 months crisscrossing the country again, this time by stagecoach, in 1823 and 1824."b'The next 10 years saw several new rounds of organizing: large petitions, great meetings, skillfully coordinated lobbying, a rare street demonstration and, to widespread male shock, the emergence of outspoken women abolitionists. In addition, there was the added pressure of a large, barely contained slave revolt in Jamaica. Finally, after months of acrimonious debate, in 1833 Parliament voted to phase out slavery throughout the empire. When freedom for all came, just after midnight on Aug. 1, 1838, a group of former slaves who were gathered in a Baptist church in Falmouth, Jamaica, placed a whip, chains and an iron punishment collar in a coffin, and buried it in the churchyard. Emancipation Day has been celebrated ever since.'b'Today, at a moment when there seems little recent progress on racial equity to celebrate, it is worth a glance into the past for some inspiration. The British antislavery movement offers us some hopeful lessons. First, it was an unprecedented example of coalition politics. The principal groups people identified with in 18th-century England were not political parties but religious sects. The antislavery crusade saw Quakers, Anglicans, Baptists and Methodists working together for a common, secular aim.'b'Second, the abolitionists were very imaginative in finding new techniques to carry their message to a wider audience. They discovered or perfected the use of virtually all the "new media" of the day: they created the first widely reproduced political poster and the first logo for a political organization (a kneeling slave in chains); they brandished whips, chains and handcuffs to dramatize their speeches; they discovered that what attracted millions of readers to their books and pamphlets was not Biblical argument, but vivid, eyewitness testimony.'b'And, finally, they never gave up. Neither wartime repression nor the powerful pro-slavery lobby could extinguish the movement. Thomas Clarkson, who remained active in it all his life, was 78 years old when those chains were buried in the Jamaican churchyard.'b"Eight years later, a few weeks before Clarkson's death, Frederick Douglass paid a visit. Clarkson was still busy writing pamphlets and open letters against slavery -- American slavery now. He told Douglass that he had worked in the cause for 60 years, and that if he had 60 more to live, he would continue to do the same. Both men knew that no fight for real justice is won easily, and that most last a lifetime or more. Dr. King knew that too. In celebrating his legacy today, we also honor the legacy of all those who went before him, here and abroad. And, in a world where the gap between haves and have-nots sometimes seems wider than ever, we acknowledge the work that still has to be done."b'Op-Ed Contributor Adam Hochschild is the author, most recently, of "Bury the Chains: Prophets and Rebels in the Fight to Free an Empire\'s Slaves."'b"Atlanta - You could get dizzy thinking about the history that has passed in and out of Ebenezer Baptist Church, which was the spiritual home (and primary safe house) of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the civil rights movement of the 1950's and 60's. There's now a spiffy new church right across the street, but the memories of the battles fought and the freedom gained in that tumultuous period live on in the old building, with its narrow stairways and creaking floors, and the basement where so many strategy sessions were held."b'On Friday night I had the privilege of joining the actors Martin Sheen, Lynn Redgrave, Alfre Woodard, Sean Penn, Woody Harrelson and others in a reading at the old church of Ariel Dorfman\'s play "Speak Truth to Power: Voices From Beyond the Dark," which is based on the book "Speak Truth to Power," by Kerry Kennedy and the photographer Eddie Adams. The occasion marked the 76th anniversary of Dr. King\'s birth (he was only 39 when he was killed) and the 40th anniversary of his acceptance of the Nobel Peace Prize. Among those in the audience was Dr. King\'s widow, Coretta.'b'"Speak Truth to Power" is about the emergence of courage and moral leadership in those bleak periods when free expression, religious liberty, human rights and even our very humanity are threatened by destructive forces that range from indifference to murderous brutality. The leadership often comes from unexpected sources, like Bobby Muller, an American Marine lieutenant whose spinal cord was severed when he was shot in the back in Vietnam. He became a champion of veterans\' rights and years later, as a co-founder of the Campaign to Ban Land Mines, shared the Nobel Peace Prize.'b'Mr. Muller, in a wheelchair, was also in the audience at Ebenezer on Friday night .'b'"Courage begins with one voice," said Oscar Arias Sanchez, the former president of Costa Rica, who won the Nobel Prize in 1987 for developing a Central American peace plan.'b"Both the play and the book are made up of passages from interviews of men and women who, in a wide variety of ways, defended human rights in countries that span the globe. Dianna Ortiz is an Ursuline nun from New Mexico who went to Guatemala in the 1980's as a missionary. She was abducted, gang raped and tortured by government agents. She said one of the men overseeing the torture appeared to be American. At one point she was lowered into a pit filled with the bodies of men, women and children who had been murdered."b'"To this day," said Sister Ortiz, "I can smell the decomposing of bodies disposed of in an open pit. I can hear the piercing screams of other people being tortured."'b"In a short introduction to Sister Ortiz's interview in the book, Ms. Kennedy wrote:"b'"Ortiz\'s ordeal did not end with her escape. Her torment continued as she sought answers from the U.S. government about the identity of her torturers in her unrelenting quest for justice. Ortiz\'s raw honesty and capacity to articulate the agony she suffered compelled the United States to declassify long-secret files on Guatemala, and shed light on some of the darkest moments of Guatemalan history and American foreign policy."'b'Sister Ortiz now runs a center for survivors of torture.'b"The most hopeful thing to be drawn from Mr. Dorfman's play and Ms. Kennedy's book is that effective leadership can come from anywhere, at any time. From my perspective, this is a dark moment in American history. The Treasury has been raided and the loot is being turned over by the trainload to those who are already the richest citizens in the land. We've launched a hideous war for no good reason in Iraq. And we're about to elevate to the highest law enforcement position in the land a man who helped choreograph the American effort to evade the international prohibitions against torture."b"Never since his assassination in 1968 have I felt the absence of Martin Luther King more acutely. Where are today's voices of moral outrage? Where is the leadership willing to stand up and say: Enough! We've sullied ourselves enough."b'I\'m convinced, without being able to prove it, that those voices will emerge. There was a time when no one had heard of Dr. King. Or Oscar Arias Sanchez. Or Martin O\'Brien, who founded the foremost human rights organization in Northern Ireland, and who tells us: "The worst thing is apathy -- to sit idly by in the face of injustice and to do nothing about it."'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"Cambridge, Mass. - TEN former directors of Enron have agreed to pay $13 million from their own pockets to settle a class action suit stemming from Enron's collapse in 2001, which wiped out some $60 billion in shareholder value. Because directors almost never have to pay even a penny in such suits, the Enron settlement -- announced just days after several former WorldCom directors agreed to a similar deal -- was widely viewed as a significant development that could discourage potential directors from serving on corporate boards."b"This view is mistaken. A close look at the settlement shows that Enron's directors have still not been held accountable in any meaningful way."b'Of the 18 former directors who were defendants in the Enron case, only 10 have to pay under the settlement. More important, according to the complaint against them, these 10 sold Enron shares worth more than $250 million during the period in which Enron was misreporting its financial affairs. According to the lawyer for the lead plaintiffs, the settlement requires each of these 10 to pay an amount equal to 10 percent of his or her pretax profits. They will be able to keep the other 90 percent -- which amounts to $117 million -- while investors who held their Enron stock lost their shirts.'b"The other eight Enron directors will not pay a penny but nonetheless have all claims against them settled. These directors did not sell shares before their value evaporated, which is presumably why they are not contributing. But they played important roles in the board's oversight failure. They include three of the six members of Enron's audit committee as well as six of the eight members of the finance committee, which reviewed many transactions that Enron used to deceive investors. Despite their role in the oversight failure, these eight directors emerge from Enron's ruins without having to pay a cent."b'In a 2002 report, a Senate subcommittee concluded that by failing to protect shareholders\' interests and ignoring questionable business practices, the Enron board "contributed to the company\'s collapse and bears a share of the responsibility for it." With the cases against them settled without any admission of wrongdoing, determining the directors\' precise share of responsibility will be left to the judgment of history. But one thing will be clear: their share of the cost will be trivial.'b"One reason for the directors' ability to walk away relatively scot-free lies in the incentives for the other parties in the litigation. Plaintiffs' lawyers naturally focus on maximizing the total recovery to the class -- and therefore on the defendants with the deepest pockets -- and not on what portion will be paid by individual directors. Insurance companies are in the business of providing broad protection to directors, who pay for it in advance with shareholders' money."b'For these reasons, as well as for various legal rules and charter provisions that protect directors from liability, failing directors practically never have to pay personally for violations of their fiduciary duties. Although these duties are in theory a foundation of the corporate system, their practical significance is far more limited than most investors appreciate.'b'With Enron, the failure of the board had disastrous consequences, leading to the second largest bankruptcy in American history and shaking investor confidence. It is difficult to envision a stronger case for imposing a meaningful financial penalty on directors. Yet the settlement fails to do so.'b"The settlement hardly heralds a new era in which directors who fail to act in shareholders' interests pay the price. If even Enron's board members are treated this gently, then other corporate directors can rest easy."b'Op-Ed Contributor Lucian Bebchuk, a professor at Harvard Law School, is the co-author of "Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation."'b"When the Senate battles fire up again over the merits of President Bush's nominees to the federal courts, the administration will have a surprising new partisan on its side, the National Association of Manufacturers, the powerful business lobby that heretofore has stayed out of such high-profile political fracases. The aggressive decision to create a multimillion-dollar campaign in open support of the Bush nominees was announced by the group's new president, John Engler, former governor of Michigan and one of Mr. Bush's close Republican friends."b"Some social conservative groups had already announced that they were adding Mr. Bush's judicial nominations to their normal priority list for the new year. The N.A.M.'s decision to join in is significant. The association includes 10,000 small and middle-size businesses, but also major manufacturers like General Motors that are presumably sensitive to overt partisanship in the public arena."b"Mr. Engler told The Los Angeles Times that his organization was not interested in abortion and other social issues that are the lightning rods at the Senate's judicial hearings. The decision to openly rally to the president's side, he said, is rooted in issues like tort reform. Indeed, Mr. Bush has been pressing for limits on the ability of the public to sue and recover damages from businesses."b"In response, Big Labor and other liberal groups have begun talking of spending more on the judgeship fights. And that will further degrade a debate that should be about a nominee's merits, not the whose-side-are-you-on simplicities of feral politics."b"While the United Nations' oil-for-food program was in operation in Iraq, U.N. auditors were flagging grievous weaknesses in its management that were never rectified. But the reports, which were released last week by a U.N. investigating committee, reveal far more disturbing problems with the audits themselves, which never targeted the system of bribes and kickbacks that formed the core of the corruption. The great unanswered question is who dropped the ball and why."b'While Iraq was under U.N. sanctions, its government was allowed to sell oil only when the proceeds were used to purchase civilian goods like food or medicine. The audits, made public by a special investigative committee headed by Paul Volcker, show that U.N. officials did a sloppy job of riding herd on the program. They failed to supervise their contractors adequately or follow up previous audit recommendations. They squandered millions of dollars needlessly, and ignored understaffing at ports and borders where oil exports and humanitarian imports were supposed to be inspected.'b"Those failures surely need to be addressed to restore confidence in the United Nations' ability to manage large international programs. But they are relatively small bore compared with the way Saddam Hussein manipulated the contracts for the oil he sold and the goods he bought. Selling low and buying high, he reaped huge kickbacks, which he used to acquire forbidden merchandise like weapons components or luxury goods that furnished presidential palaces while the people went hungry. The chief American weapons inspector in Iraq has concluded that lax supervision permitted the Hussein government to reap some $1.7 billion this way. Yet the auditors rang no warning bells."b"The blame lies either with the U.N. bureaucracy or with the Security Council, to which the audit division passed the buck. It makes a big difference which explanation is right. If the U.N. officials overseeing the oil-for-food program were attempting to hide this corruption because they were incapable -- or too corrupt -- to do anything about it, the United Nations' troubles would seem immense enough to justify its bitterest critics."b"But it's a different story if most of the blame lies with the Security Council, whose members, including the United States, may have overlooked the corruption for their own reasons. Some Security Council members, for example, may have preferred to keep their eyes on the main goal -- denying Iraq weapons of mass destruction -- without worrying about surcharges and kickbacks. In that case, most of the current U.N. bashing would look off target."b'The U.N.\'s own audits turned up no evidence of corruption or bribery, "no flaming red flags," in Mr. Volcker\'s colorful description. And in an interview last week with Fox News, Secretary of State Colin Powell said responsibility for oil-for-food problems rested in part with the Security Council, "and we are a member of the Security Council."'b'If the amount skimmed from the program by Saddam Hussein is $1.7 billion, it pales next to the money Iraq made by smuggling oil out of the country. That had nothing to do with the oil-for-food program and was often tacitly accepted as the price for maintaining international support for the sanctions that kept weapons of mass destruction out of Iraq. Mr. Volcker and various Congressional investigators must distinguish the routes by which Iraq got its billions in illicit revenues, and who made the decisions that let it happen.'b"The scale of the tsunami disaster and continuing health risks in Indonesia's Aceh Province are almost beyond comprehension. Getting desperately needed emergency aid to the survivors, wherever they are, is now an overwhelmingly urgent humanitarian priority. Unfortunately, Indonesia's politically powerful army is not used to putting humanitarianism first. Imbued with a reflexively nationalist ideology and obsessed with a counterinsurgency campaign against armed Aceh separatist groups, army leaders persuaded government officials to restrict foreign aid workers to the province's two main cities. They also pushed them to tell the foreign military forces now aiding relief operations to leave Indonesia no later than March 26. That deadline has been recast as a target date after complaints from Washington."b"President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, a former general himself, needs to make sure his generals understand that they are accountable to him as the democratically elected leader and that the human needs of Aceh's people must be Indonesia's most compelling concern. Until that change is internalized, there can be no dropping of America's limits on military ties with Indonesia. Those limits were imposed because of past human rights violations by the Indonesian armed forces."b'At least 100,000 people died in Indonesia in the Dec. 26 tsunami. Aceh was the hardest-hit area. Cities were flattened and villages wiped from the map. Three weeks later, disease is a major concern and medical help is desperately needed.'b'For Indonesian military leaders, however, Aceh is not just the site of a natural calamity; it is also the scene of a long and bloody conflict with local separatist guerrillas. And instead of grasping this unexpected opportunity to create good will and foster national reconciliation in a common rebuilding effort, army leaders have seemed more intent on getting the foreigners out of the way so they can resume counterinsurgency efforts as quickly as possible.'b"Indonesia's generals have exercised political power behind the scenes for decades. They continued to do so even after the 32-year dictatorship of Gen. Suharto ended in 1998. Last September, Mr. Yudhoyono became the first Indonesian leader to be democratically elected by a direct popular vote, an event that many hailed as the start of a new era of more responsive and competent government. Those hopes now face a critical test. This is the moment for Mr. Yudhoyono to take full charge and insist that the needs of Aceh's people come first."b"Washington - America's quality media are now wading through the Slough of Despond. Our self-flagellation, handwringing and narcissism threaten our mission to act as counterweight to government power."b'Hear the wailing: The bloggers are coming! The Bible-thumpers are cursing our secular inhumanism! The plumber judges are plugging our leaks! The Yahoo president ducks our questions and giggles at our gaffes! News is slyly slanted as bias rears its head!'b"Cheer up. Despite the recent lapses at CBS and previous mishaps at The Times and USA Today, here's why mainstream journalism has a future."b'1. On the challenge from bloggers: The "platform" -- print, TV, Internet, telepathy, whatever -- will change, but the public hunger for reliable information will grow. Blogs will compete with op-ed columns for "views you can use," and the best will morph out of the pajama game to deliver serious analysis and fresh information, someday prospering with ads and subscriptions. The prospect of profit will bring bloggers in from the meanstream to the mainstream center of comment and local news coverage.'b'On national or global events, however, the news consumer needs trained reporters on the scene to transmit facts and trustworthy editors to judge significance. In crises, large media gathering-places are needed to respond to a need for national community.'b'2. On resentment of media elitism by awakened cultural and religious voices: They\'re not crazies. Their opinions on stem cells and same-sex marriage are newsworthy and not an assault on church-state separation. Protests at "wardrobe malfunction" and campaigns against state-sponsored gambling are neither bluenosed nor repressive.'b'But there is no need for sensible seculars in mainstream media to feel an urgent call to get right with religion. It\'s O.K. to say "Merry Christmas" at the end of a newscast without worrying about equal greeting for Ramadan and Hanukkah and Kwanzaa and all the rest.'b"3. On judges jailing journalists for refusing to reveal sources: Mainstream media have good reason to be angry about being unfairly jumped on, and no reason to be depressed and docile for fear of seeming self-interested. If the press can't promise sources that we won't rat on them, coverage would cease to be robust and uninhibited; government and corporate corruption would go unreported."b"But why should mainstream media be alone in resisting this nationwide judicial assault on the people's right to know wrongdoing? Where is the legal profession, which should not only see danger in an unrestrained judiciary, but would be next in line to lose much of its own privilege of confidentiality with clients? Where are consumer groups, often reliant on whistleblower revelations in newspapers? And where are the preachers who may be threatened with contempt of court for not testifying about penitents engaged in peculation?"b"4. On mainstream media's feeling that President Bush doesn't give a hoot about what we say or write: That's his loss more than ours. He may deliver an uplifting second Inaugural Address but still does not appear thoughtful or adept at answering questions."b'The reason: Bush holds quarterly, rather than the traditional monthly, news conferences. This lack of regular rehearsal costs him familiarity with issues, and costs his administration the discipline of deadlines for suggested answers. As the debates showed, Bush gets better with practice. He is not as good as he thinks he is when winging it.'b'5. On widespread suspicion of political bias in news coverage: Here\'s the good news: Bad news is newsier than good news. Even when media try to be "fair and impartial," they can be expected to annoy rather than please the party in power. That\'s because clean government needs a snooping adversary, not a cheerleader; the Outs need help from the press to hold the Ins accountable.'b"Today that media bias is undeniably liberal. That's natural when conservatives are the Ins; five years ago, the bias often ran the other way. As future elections near, that tilt must disappear from news pages to let the voters do the tilting. Some mainstreamers flopped on necessary election evenhandedness in 2004 and should be grimly thankful for a corrective kick in the teeth from other media, bloggers and righteous right-wingers."b'Get out of that Slough, counsels Worldly-Wiseman: Pulitzer-quality journalism lies just ahead.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: safire@nytimes.com'b'LOS ANGELES - PRESIDENT BUSH begins his second term this week as the leader of a nation that appears to be sharply divided. Since the election, there\'s been endless discussion about the growing gap between "red" and "blue" America. When former President Bill Clinton said a few months ago that he was probably the only person in America who liked both Mr. Bush and Senator John Kerry, it seemed it might be true.'b'Yet, surprisingly, recent neuroscience research suggests that Democrats and Republicans are not nearly as far apart as they seem. In fact, there is empirical evidence that even the fiercest partisans may instinctively like both Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry, although they struggle against this collaborative impulse.'b'During the eight months before the election, I was part of a group of political professionals and scientists from the University of California, Los Angeles, who used functional magnetic resonance imaging, or f.M.R.I., to scan the brains of 10 Republicans and 10 Democrats, producing images like those seen above. We measured brain activity while subjects looked at political advertisements and at images of the presidential candidates.'b'The news media have focused on our finding that the amygdala, a part of the brain that responds to danger, was more heightened in Democrats when viewing scenes of 9/11 than in Republicans. This might seem to indicate fundamental differences, but other aspects of our results suggest striking commonalities.'b'While viewing their own candidate, both Democrats and Republicans showed activity in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, an area associated with strong instinctive feelings of emotional connection. Viewing the opposing candidate, however, activated the anterior cingulate cortex, which indicates cognitive and emotional conflict. It also lighted up the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, an area that acts to suppress or shape emotional reactions.'b"These patterns of brain activity, made visible on the f.M.R.I.'s, suggest that both Bush and Kerry voters were mentally battling their attraction to the other side. Bush voters wanted to follow Mr. Kerry; Kerry voters found appeal in Mr. Bush. Both groups fought this instinct by arguing to themselves that their impulses were wrong. By recalling flaws associated with the opposition, the voters displaced attraction with dislike. Because the process happened nearly instantaneously, only the final sense of dismay reached full awareness."b'Simplifying the neurophysiology somewhat, one can regard the process of reaching an opinion or making a choice as a collaboration between two regions of the brain -- the limbic area, which feels emotions, and the prefrontal cortex, which controls the processing of ideas and information. The two areas work in tandem: thoughts provoke feelings, and in turn, the intensity of these feelings determines how the thoughts are valued. In reacting to pictures of the opposing candidate, the voters we tested countered the feelings of connection with even stronger hostile emotions, which they induced by calling up negative images and ideas.'b"This dance between strong emotions and interconnected ideas is well known in psychiatry, and it forms the foundation of cognitive behavioral therapy, an effective form of talk therapy. When there is a divorce, for example, adolescents may induce in themselves feelings of rage toward one parent out of loyalty to the other. A cognitive behavioral therapist could help quench this rage by challenging the child's beliefs about the estranged parent. Without the beliefs to sustain it, the rage disappears."b'In the case of this past election, while we witnessed an electorate that seemed irreconcilably divided, using f.M.R.I., we could see that the Republicans and Democrats we tested liked both candidates. The initial reflex toward allegiance is easy to explain: people rise through the ranks to run for higher office because they are able to evoke in others a powerful impulse to join their cause. Voters sense this attraction, and to keep from succumbing, they dredge up emotion-laden negative images as a counterweight.'b'This suggests that the passions swirling through elections are not driven by a deep commitment to issues. We are not fighting over the future of the country; we are fighting for our team, like Red Sox and Yankee fans arguing over which club has the better catcher. Both in an election and in baseball, all that really matters is who wears the team uniform.'b"Will an awareness that we are conning ourselves to feel alienated from each other help to close the political gap? It is unknown, because neuroscience has advanced only recently to the point where humans can begin to watch themselves think and feel. If we are going to solve the nation's complicated problems, it is important to close this gap because in a setting where emotions run high, careful thoughts have no chance against intoxicating ones. In divisive politics, as in highly spiced dishes, all subtlety is lost."b'So, Democrats, admit that you admire the confidence and decisiveness of President Bush. And Republicans, concede that you would like a president to have the depth of knowledge and broad intelligence of Mr. Kerry. Now that f.M.R.I. is revealing our antagonisms as a defensive ploy, it is time to erase the red and blue divide.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Joshua Freedman, a psychiatrist, is on the faculty of the Neuropsychiatric Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles.'b'For an AIDS patient in a poor country lucky enough to get antiretroviral treatment, chances are that the pills that stave off death come from India. Generic knockoffs of AIDS drugs made by Indian manufacturers -- now treating patients in 200 countries -- have brought the price of antiretroviral therapy down to $140 a year from $12,000.'b"That luck may soon run out. India has become the world's supplier of cheap AIDS drugs because it has the necessary raw materials and a thriving and sophisticated copycat drug industry made possible by laws that grant patents to the process of making medicines, rather than to the drugs themselves. But when India signed the World Trade Organization's agreement on intellectual property in 1994, it was required to institute patents on products by Jan. 1, 2005. These rules have little to do with free trade and more to do with the lobbying power of the American and European pharmaceutical industries."b"India's government has issued rules that will effectively end the copycat industry for newer drugs. For the world's poor, this will be a double hit -- cutting off the supply of affordable medicines and removing the generic competition that drives down the cost of brand-name drugs."b"But there is still a chance to fix the flaws in these rules, because they are contained in a decree that must be approved by Parliament. Heavily influenced by multinational and Indian drug makers eager to sell patented medicines to India's huge middle class, the decree is so tilted toward the pharmaceutical industry that it does not even take advantage of rights countries enjoy under the W.T.O. to protect public health."b"In November 2001, members of the World Trade Organization agreed that countries can issue compulsory licenses to permit generic production of patented drugs without the patent holder's agreement in order to protect public health, at home or abroad. But under the Indian decree, getting a compulsory license would be slow and difficult; each application would face a fight from multinational drug firms and the governments that do their bidding. India should adopt laws that expedite compulsory licenses, including allowing challenges to proceed after production begins instead of holding it up. In addition, India must close an important loophole affecting the sick overseas: under the current rules, Malawi, for example, could not import from India an inexpensive version of a medicine that is not under patent in Malawi. This needs to be changed."b'Industry lobbyists managed to insert two noxious provisions in the decree that go well beyond the W.T.O. rules. The decree would limit efforts to challenge patents before they take effect. Also, it is uncomfortably vague about whether companies could engage in "evergreening" -- extending their patents by switching from a capsule to a tablet, for example, or finding a new use for the product. This practice, a problem in America and elsewhere, extends monopolies and discourages innovation.'b"While some drugs -- those that existed before 1995 -- will always be off patent in India, some widely used drugs are at risk. So are new generations of much more expensive AIDS drugs that will soon be needed worldwide as resistance builds to current medicines. If the decree is not changed before Parliament approves it, it will be very difficult for India to supply them. India's parliamentarians must keep in mind that this arcane dispute is actually a crucial battleground for the health of hundreds of millions of people in India and worldwide."b'In a round of pre-inauguration interviews, President Bush has repeatedly said he\'s serious about immigration reform. When it comes to fixing a "broken" immigration system, the president keeps sending messages that he is not giving up, despite the noise coming from the send-\'em-home crowd in his own party. Over at the House of Representatives, this steadfast support of a more humane immigration system has made some anti-immigration folks very unhappy. They have accused him of being "petulant," of jeopardizing his whole agenda by pushing this difficult issue. As Representative J.D. Hayworth, a Republican from Arizona, told The Washington Times last week, "It would just be sad for the president to tie his shoelaces together right out of the starting block."'b'With friends like these at his back, Mr. Bush deserves more public support from the Republicans who can be more thoughtful on this issue, like Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the new chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. Democrats should also start to rally behind the White House on this issue, especially if people like Senator Edward Kennedy can participate in the crafting of such an important reform that could make the system fairer, safer and more humane.'b'The president has repeatedly said in recent months that he does not want an amnesty or "instant citizenship" for the 8 million to 10 million undocumented aliens who live and work in America. Instead, Mr. Bush has been talking in general about a guest-worker program that would be designed to give legal status to those now doing jobs Americans refuse to do. But the president also increasingly seems to be acknowledging the key to such a program, which is that these workers must be offered a path to American citizenship. Certainly, they cannot be allowed to jump the very long queue that already exists. But what undocumented workers would come out of the shadows willingly if it meant an automatic one-way ticket back to their native land?'b'Mr. Bush also seems to have found a good way recently to talk to those who see any illegal immigrant as a security risk. He told The Wall Street Journal that he believes a better guest-worker program will immediately improve border security. If it is unnecessary for thousands of workers to cross the nation\'s borders secretly, the ones who do try to sneak across "may be involved in something other than labor," as the president explained. If the Bush immigration system can be more humane, fair and even secure, the president deserves support, especially from his conservative friends.'b'CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - SO why is George W. Bush taking the oath of office this week and not John Kerry? For me, the answer is clear: Mr. Kerry failed because of his inability to tell his own story. John Kerry could have presented to the American people his full biography, but instead he chose to edit who he was. Why?'b"My guess is that Mr. Kerry and his campaign believed that certain things could not be mentioned. Foremost among these was Mr. Kerry's opposition to the war in Vietnam, which was largely erased from the candidate's life. That was a mistake. People think in narratives -- in beginnings, middles and ends. The danger when you edit something too severely is that it no longer makes sense; worse still, it leaves people with the disquieting impression that something is being hidden."b"Muting Mr. Kerry's opposition to the Vietnam War had precisely this effect. Remember, this is the man who in 1971 made the following statement to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee:"b'"Each day to facilitate the process by which the United States washes her hands of Vietnam someone has to give up his life so that the United States doesn\'t have to admit something that the entire world already knows, so that we can\'t say they we have made a mistake. We are asking Americans to think about that, because how do you ask a man to be the last man to die in Vietnam? How do you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake?"'b'Last year at the Democratic Convention in Boston, the Vietnam War was transformed into a strange version of World War II. Gone was the moral ambiguity, the complexity. Instead, Vietnam veterans appeared with Mr. Kerry as "a band of brothers," testifying to his heroism in battle.'b'This is what Mr. Kerry said in his acceptance speech: "Our band of brothers doesn\'t march together because of who we are as veterans, but because of what we learned as soldiers. We fought for this nation because we loved it and we came back with the deep belief that every day is extra. We may be a little older, we may be a little grayer, but we still know how to fight for our country."'b"Could Mr. Kerry's campaign advisers have forgotten about his role as a leader of the Vietnam Veterans Against the War? Could they have forgotten about his Senate testimony? Did they expect others to forget -- particularly longtime anti-Kerry veterans like John E. O'Neill? If so, they were gravely mistaken, and their reticence on the subject merely made Mr. Kerry vulnerable to attack."b"To me, John Kerry's heroism encompassed both his actions in combat and his willingness to change his mind and stand up for what he thought was right. He realized that soldiers and civilians were dying in a war that wasn't accomplishing its objectives. Yet he never tied this crucial piece of his biography into his campaign for the presidency. And in failing to do so, he left a blank space in his personal story -- a blank space that made it possible for the criticisms of the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth to be alarmingly effective."b"By implying that his real heroism was fighting in Vietnam, Mr. Kerry also left himself open to the charge that he was somehow inauthentic. Americans have a complicated relationship with their military heroes: we expect them not to talk about their heroism. War heroes, in real life and in the movies, rarely speak about their courage in battle. Eisenhower didn't. Nor did Kennedy, Bob Dole, or the president's father."b"And then there was the president. Though George W. Bush's military record was arguably less impressive than his opponent's, the Republicans never misrepresented who he was. Mr. Bush never pretended to be a war hero. He never pretended to be anything but a ne'er-do-well who turned his life around when he became a born-again Christian. His life story made sense; it was recognizable and easy to understand. There was no point in attacking him about his war record (or lack of one): he had already conceded the point. He had never claimed to be a hero. John Kerry had."b'Mr. Bush portrayed himself as a controversial but candid incumbent. In accepting his party\'s nomination, he said: "In the last four years, you and I have come to know each other. Even when we don\'t agree, at least you know what I believe and where I stand." This was the cornerstone of his approach. And it worked. People grasped who he was, even when they disagreed with his policies.'b"After the 2004 conventions, a New York Times poll asked people whether they felt that the candidates were not being candid about their war records. Many of Mr. Kerry's supporters were mystified that almost as large a percentage of Americans felt that he was holding something back as felt that Mr. Bush was doing the same."b'But the polls made perfect sense. Mr. Kerry was holding something back -- his real story about Vietnam. And in the end the questions about his service in Vietnam became questions about how he would deal with the war in Iraq. Was Mr. Kerry for it or against it? Questions about Iraq became questions about his candor, and vice versa.'b"What's disconcerting here is that Mr. Kerry had an out. He could have explained why he went to Vietnam and then opposed the war, and then he could have used this explanation to help people understand why he voted for the Iraq war and then voted against it. His experience with the changing nature of a war could have shifted those critical swing voters, convincing them that he was just the person to lead them at this juncture in our history."b"Many people believe that Mr. Kerry is not preparing for his inaugural this week because he wasn't conservative enough, because the Democrats were outwitted by Karl Rove, because of gay marriage, because of the Christian evangelicals who supposedly came out of the woodwork on Election Day."b'But these people miss the point. John Kerry lost because he concealed something that was completely honorable, even heroic: his opposition to Vietnam. George W. Bush told the truth about something that, to my mind, was not honorable: he supported that war but found a way to stay home. Mr. Kerry was forthright about almost everything except himself -- and in this election that was not enough.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Errol Morris, a filmmaker and director, won an Academy Award last year for the documentary "The Fog of War: 11 Lessons From the Life of Robert S. McNamara." In the 2004 campaign, he produced political commercials for MoveOn.org.'b'The November election may feel like ancient history, but it is still going on in North Carolina. The state has been unable to swear in an agriculture commissioner because a single malfunctioning electronic voting machine lost more ballots than the number of votes that separate the two candidates. The State Board of Elections, the candidates and the public are sharply divided on how to proceed. The mess North Carolina finds itself in is a cautionary tale about the perils of relying on electronic voting that does not produce a paper record.'b'When the returns came in for the agriculture commissioner race, two things were clear: the Republican, Steve Troxler, and the Democrat, Britt Cobb, were just 2,287 votes apart, and a voting machine in Carteret County had lost 4,438 votes. The machine had mistakenly been set to keep roughly 3,000 votes in its memory, which was not enough. And in a spectacularly poor design decision, it was programmed to let people keep "voting" even when their votes were not being saved.'b'There have been many suggestions for what to do next. The State Board of Elections initially wanted to have a revote limited to Carteret County, but a court struck that down. Then it scheduled a new statewide election, but that, too, was held to be improper. The elections board, which is bitterly divided along partisan lines, has been ordered by a judge to try again to find a way to resolve the election. But no one is predicting it will be easy. "There are conflicting and little-used statutes and constitutional provisions that may not be consistent with each other," says Don Wright, the general counsel of the elections board.'b"In the meantime, both sides are promoting methods that appear designed to ensure that their candidate wins. Republicans want to count 1,352 affidavits recently collected by Mr. Troxler from Carteret County voters saying that they voted for him on the faulty machine. They say that if the affidavits were counted, it would be mathematically impossible for Mr. Cobb to win. Democrats say this would violate the principle of a secret ballot and open up the possibility of voter coercion. Some of Mr. Cobb's backers argue that the State Constitution requires that the race be decided by the state legislature, which just happens to be in Democratic hands."b"North Carolina agriculture commissioner may not be the loftiest of offices. But if the same glitch had occurred in Washington, where Christine Gregoire was just elected governor by 129 votes, it would have destabilized the entire state government. If it had occurred in 2000 in Florida, where President Bush's margin was just 537 votes, it would have undermined an entire presidential election."b"North Carolina's plight underscores a basic point about elections: because there are often problems, there must be a mechanism for a recount. If the Carteret County voting machine had produced a voter-verified paper record each time a vote was cast, these paper records could have been counted and the matter would be resolved. But electronic voting machines that do not produce paper records make recounts impossible."b"The one positive thing to come out of the agriculture commissioner race fiasco is that it has prompted North Carolina to reconsider its use of paperless electronic voting. As the state ponders the issue, it should look to Ohio. Kenneth Blackwell, the Ohio secretary of state who did so many things wrong as elections supervisor last year, recently did one very important thing right. He directed all of the state's counties to adopt paper-based optical-scan voting systems. If Carteret County had voted on machines that produced a paper record, North Carolina would not have the constitutional crisis it has now -- it would have an agriculture commissioner."b'Making Votes Count: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/makingvotescount.'b'The Social Security debate has exposed interesting differences within the Democratic Party between those who are inspired by Bill Clinton and those who are inspired by -- wait for it -- Newt Gingrich.'b'The Clintonites oppose President Bush\'s plan to carve out private accounts. But infused with those reconciling "third way" instincts, they are quick to come up with alternative plans they hope will win bipartisan support.'b'Clintonites like Gene Sperling or Representative Rahm Emanuel still tend to have a governing mentality -- even in the minority, they are always proposing things, rarely just opposing.'b'The Democratic Gingrichians are different. They feel that Social Security is to Bush what health care reform was to Clinton -- the big overreach that will allow the opposing party to deliver a devastating blow to the president, and maybe even regain control of Congress.'b'Their core belief is that Republicans have won of late because they have been ruthless and disciplined while Democrats have been responsible and wimpy. It is time, the neo-Gingrichians say, to scorch the earth. "I believe that the Republican majority has acted in such a dictatorial fashion that a full-scale revolt is the only solution," the Democratic consultant Howard Wolfson told Michael Crowley of The New Republic.'b'That means waging a Gingrich-style war on the entire Congressional power structure. That means furiously opposing every other Bush initiative. That means giving up any hope of trying to work with Republicans, but staging an all-out effort to crush and delegitimize them.'b"The problem with the neo-Gingrichians is that they have their history backward. Bill Clinton won the presidency in 1992 with only 43 percent of the vote. When Gingrich began his assault, there already was a potential conservative majority in the country; it's just that many of these conservatives, for historical reasons, tended to vote Democratic in Congressional races."b"What the Republicans achieved in the first two years of the Clinton term was simply this: By exploiting issues like health care, gays in the military, midnight basketball and so on, they persuaded conservatives to vote Republican. The 1994 election was the culmination of a long process in which voters' ideology finally got in line with their partisanship. Gingrich, Armey and company only had to appeal to conservatives to win big."b'The Democrats today are in a very different position. They already have all the liberals. What they lack is support from middle-class white families in fast-growing suburbs. But by copying the Gingrich tactics -- or what they think of as the Gingrich tactics -- of hyperpartisanship and ruthless oppositionalism, they will only alienate those voters even more.'b"They won't turn themselves into the 1990's Republicans. They will turn themselves into the 1930's Republicans or the current British Tory Party. They will become a party caught in a cycle of negativity and oppositionalism. They will score occasional victories against the majority party, which will yield no lasting benefits to themselves. They may delay Social Security reform, but that doesn't mean voters will trust them with power any time soon."b'There is an essential asymmetry in American politics today. There are three conservatives in this country for every two liberals. A Republican can be quite conservative -- like Ronald Reagan or George W. Bush -- and still win the White House. But only one Democratic presidential candidate has won over 50 percent of the vote in the past 40 years (Jimmy Carter got 50.1 percent in 1976).'b'That means Republicans can rely on their core instincts and still win, while Democrats cannot. If you look at the race for Democratic Party chairman, you get the impression this is a party that understands this and will seek out people who see the world differently.'b'But if you look at the campaign against Social Security reform in Congress, you see a party still believing the old ideas will work if only they are pursued more ruthlessly.'b"This is a delusion. Newt Gingrich did help Republicans regain the majority. But that doesn't mean his tactics, even in caricature form, will work for the Democrats, whose problems are deeper. The truth is that Democrats probably need a leader who will make liberals feel uncomfortable, the way Clinton did, not someone who will make them feel righteous and good."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b'A charming man courts a woman, telling her that he\'s a wealthy independent businessman. Just after the wedding, however, she learns that he has been cooking the books, several employees have accused him of sexual harassment and his company is about to file for bankruptcy. She accuses him of deception. "The accountability moment is behind us," he replies.'b'Last week President Bush declared that the election was the "accountability moment" for the war in Iraq -- the voters saw it his way, and that\'s that. But Mr. Bush didn\'t level with the voters during the campaign and doesn\'t deserve anyone\'s future trust.'b"I won't belabor the W.M.D. issue, except to point out that the Bush administration, without exactly lying, managed to keep most voters confused. According to a Pew poll, on the eve of the election the great majority of voters, of both parties, believed that the Bush administration had asserted that it found either W.M.D. or an active W.M.D. program in Iraq."b'Mr. Bush also systematically misrepresented how the war was going. Remember last September when Ayad Allawi came to Washington? Mr. Allawi, acting as a de facto member of the Bush campaign -- a former official close to the campaign suggested phrases and helped him rehearse his speech to Congress -- declared that 14 or 15 of Iraq\'s 18 provinces were "completely safe," and that the interim government had 100,000 trained troops. None of it was true.'b'Now that the election is over, we learn that the search for W.M.D. has been abandoned. Meanwhile, military officials have admitted that even as Mr. Bush kept asserting that we were making "good progress," the insurgency was growing in numbers and effectiveness, that the Army Reserve is "rapidly degenerating into a \'broken\' force," and oh, by the way, we\'ll need to spend at least another $100 billion to pay for war expenses and replace damaged equipment. But the accountability moment, says Mr. Bush, is behind us.'b"Maybe we can't hold Mr. Bush directly to account for misleading the public about Iraq. But Mr. Bush still has a domestic agenda, for which the lessons of Iraq are totally relevant."b'White House officials themselves concede -- or maybe boast -- that their plan to sell Social Security privatization is modeled on their selling of the Iraq war. In fact, the parallels are remarkably exact.'b'Everyone has noticed the use, once again, of crisis-mongering. Three years ago, the supposed threat from Saddam somehow became more important than catching the people who actually attacked America on 9/11. Today, the mild, possibly nonexistent long-run financial problems of Social Security have somehow become more important than dealing with the huge deficit we already have, which has nothing to do with Social Security.'b"But there's another parallel, which I haven't seen pointed out: the politicization of the agencies and the intimidation of the analysts. Bush loyalists begin frothing at the mouth when anyone points out that the White House pressured intelligence analysts to overstate the threat from Iraq, while neocons in the Pentagon pressured the military to understate the costs and risks of war. But that is what happened, and it's happening again."b"Last week Andrew Biggs, the associate commissioner for retirement policy at the Social Security Administration, appeared with Mr. Bush at a campaign-style event to promote privatization. There was a time when it would have been considered inappropriate for a civil servant to play such a blatantly political role. But then there was a time when it would have been considered inappropriate to appoint a professional advocate like Mr. Biggs, the former assistant director of the Cato Institute's Project on Social Security Privatization, to such a position in the first place."b"Sure enough, The New York Times reports that under Mr. Biggs's direction, employees of the Social Security Administration are being forced to disseminate dire warnings about the system's finances -- warnings that the employees say are exaggerated."b"Still, there are two reasons why the selling of Social Security privatization shouldn't be another slam dunk."b"One is that we're not talking about secret intelligence; the media, if they do their job, can check out the numbers and see that they don't match what Mr. Bush is saying. (A good starting point is Roger Lowenstein's superb survey in The Times Magazine last Sunday.)"b"The other is that we've been here before. Fool me once. . ."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b"Anyone who watched the delicate rinse cycle applied to Condoleezza Rice by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee yesterday, despite a jab here and there, could be forgiven for thinking that the future secretary of state was a newcomer to the Bush administration. With a few exceptions, the hearing was political theater. Ms. Rice acted as if things were going according to plan in Iraq and everywhere else, and the senators acted as if she were not part of the serial disasters of the administration's foreign policy."b"President Bush is entitled to choose his cabinet, and there was never much chance of opposition to Ms. Rice, a trusted member of his inner circle. But confirmation hearings should critically examine the nominee. Another unfortunate choice for a top job, Alberto Gonzales, at least had to endure a few hours' grilling on the torture of prisoners on his way to becoming attorney general."b"Yesterday, Democratic senators, and some Republicans, recited the flaws in Mr. Bush's foreign policies -- most glaringly on Iraq -- and then did little more than politely urge Ms. Rice to check into those things once she's confirmed."b'Senator Joseph Biden, Democrat of Delaware, asked Ms. Rice how big an Iraqi security force had actually been trained. When Ms. Rice, the national security adviser, offered an absurdly inflated 120,000, Mr. Biden said the people doing the training put the total at 4,000. He then suggested that Ms. Rice "pick up the phone or go see these folks," as if that has not been her job all along, especially in the year since the administration said that all information on operations in Iraq would flow through her.'b"Ms. Rice has been an enthusiastic supporter of dismantling international treaties and organizations from the start of Mr. Bush's presidency. The bipartisan panel on the 9/11 attacks and other accounts chillingly exposed her early disregard for the threat of terrorism. And she was so much the public face of the drive to war with Iraq that her appearances on Sunday morning talk shows became a running joke."b'That history was barely mentioned yesterday, except when Senator Barbara Boxer reminded Ms. Rice of her apocalyptic remarks about nonexistent Iraqi nuclear weapons and suggested that "your loyalty to the mission you were given, to sell this war, overwhelmed your respect for the truth."'b'Ms. Rice said repeatedly that she intended to engage in "public diplomacy." We hope that doesn\'t mean trying to sell flawed American foreign policy to reluctant governments abroad. Colin Powell couldn\'t manage that, and he is a more adept pitchman than Ms. Rice. What the country needs is not better spin, but a secretary of state who can recognize what has gone wrong and use her access to the president to help steer a more rational course.'b"Some of Ms. Rice's early moves were good. She did not choose as her deputy John Bolton, the under secretary whose confrontational approach thwarted a negotiated end to the Iranian and North Korean nuclear programs. Instead, her deputy will be Robert Zoellick, who has a long record in the diplomacy of trade."b"But yesterday's hearing did not provide more cause for optimism."b'BATTAMBANG, CAMBODIA - A year ago, a pimp handed me a quivering teenage girl. Her name was Srey Neth, and she was one of the hundreds of thousands of teenagers who are enslaved by the sex trafficking industry worldwide.'b'Then I did something dreadfully unjournalistic: I bought her.'b'I purchased Srey Neth for $150 and another teenager, Srey Mom, for $203, receiving receipts from the brothel owners. As readers may remember, I then freed the girls and took them back to their villages.'b"Now I've come back to find out how they coped with freedom."b'At first, it turns out, everything went well for Srey Neth. Our plan was for her to start a shop in her village, near Battambang. She invested $100 I had given her to build a shack and stock it with food and clothing. For a few months, business boomed.'b"The problem was her family. Srey Neth's parents and older brothers and sisters had a hard time understanding why they should go hungry when their sister had a store full of food. And her little nephews and nieces, running around the yard, helped themselves when she wasn't looking."b'"Srey Neth got mad," her mother recalled. "She said we had to stay away, or everything would be gone. She said she had to have money to buy new things."'b"But in a Cambodian village, nobody listens to an uneducated teenage girl. Indeed, the low status of girls is the underlying reason why so many daughters are sold to the brothels. So by May, Srey Neth's shop was empty, and she had no money to restock it."b'"It was our fault," her father told me, looking ashamed. "It was not Srey Neth\'s fault."'b'Srey Neth worried about her father, who was coughing up blood from tuberculosis. She also worried about her older brother, who could not afford to get married, and about the family debts, which could cost her family its land.'b'It was that kind of concern for her family that had led her, at the suggestion of a female cousin, to sell herself to the brothel in late 2003 and send the proceeds home.'b'This time, she thought about looking for work as a dishwasher in neighboring Thailand for $1.50 a day. A trafficker said he could smuggle her into Thailand and get her a dishwashing job, but only if she promised him $100.'b"Some 700,000 people are trafficked across international borders each year, and that's often how they end up in the sex industry: they assume debts and then, when they cannot quickly repay the money, gangs force them into brothels -- where they are stuck until they are dying of AIDS."b"Fortunately, I'd arranged for American Assistance for Cambodia (www.cambodiaschools.com), an aid group, to keep track of Srey Neth. It offered her something less risky: a move to Phnom Penh to learn to be a beautician. So, with money sent to the group by New York Times readers a year ago, Srey Neth started in the beauty school."b"That's where I met her again. She was beaming, and she proudly told how she had learned to give manicures and haircuts. She placed third in her class in applying makeup, and she's even studying English. She bubbles with happiness in the way a teenager should."b'"I\'m happy with Srey Neth," said the beauty school\'s owner, Sapor Rendall. "She studies hard."'b'Ms. Rendall added that there was only one problem with Srey Neth: "She doesn\'t want to do massage. I\'ve talked to her about it many times, but she\'s very reluctant."'b"Massages are routine in beauty shops in Cambodia and are not sexual, but for Srey Neth, they scream danger. I'm delighted."b"Srey Neth cut my hair -- I was her first paying customer -- and she is excitedly talking about starting her own beauty shop so she can support her family again. She says she'll call it Nick and Bernie's, after me and Bernard Krisher, the chairman of American Assistance for Cambodia."b"Today Srey Neth steers clear of the boys trying to flirt with her -- she's still deeply distrustful of boys and men -- but she has learned to laugh again. She is a happy, giggly, self-confident reminder that we should never give up on the slaves of the 21st century. I couldn't be more proud of her."b"That's the good news. In my column on Saturday, I'll tell you about Srey Mom.   Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com; William Safire will appear Friday."b"The recent discovery of another case of mad cow disease in Canada, this time in a purebred Charolais from central Alberta, comes as no surprise. This is the second case discovered this year -- the third since May 2003 -- and it's a reminder that the single case found in the United States so far, a Holstein in Washington State, was traced to a Canadian herd. What makes this new discovery important is that this cow was born after restrictions banning the feeding of animal proteins to cattle were set up to prevent the spread of the disease. This new case is also another serious impediment to the United States Department of Agriculture's plans to resume cattle imports from Canada on March 7."b'The critical question now is not simply how to keep American cattle herds from being infected by mad cow disease if imports resume. The question is how to get the U.S.D.A. to realize that the best protection it can offer ranchers and consumers is a large-scale, intensive testing program. Both Canada and the United States are relying on a feed ban to stop mad cow disease, but the effectiveness of the ban can be gauged only if there is widespread, comprehensive testing of cattle. No one knows yet how this young cow was infected or whether the ban was violated somehow. But there is no safety in making assumptions about the absence, or the presence, of mad cow disease.'b'What makes this all the more difficult is the enormous economic pressure being brought to bear. The cattle trade with Canada has been halted since the middle of 2003, and it has been enormously costly to Canadian ranchers and farmers. It has also been very profitable to American cattlemen. Now a group of ranchers has sued the U.S.D.A. to block the reopening of the cattle trade with Canada, arguing that importing Canadian livestock would threaten humans and cows in this country.'b"It will almost certainly be necessary to postpone the reopening of the border until, at the very least, the food that infected the cow in this new case has been traced. But the safest way to begin to reopen the border is to make sure that Canadian and American cattle are all tested rigorously for the presence of mad cow disease. The problem can't be solved until we know its real extent."b'Margaret Spellings, the nominee to replace Rod Paige as education secretary, clearly needs to clean house once she takes control of the department. This point was underscored yet again when Armstrong Williams, the conservative commentator, admitted receiving nearly a quarter of a million dollars in government money to promote the No Child Left Behind Act on his television program. Caught red-handed, Mr. Williams apologized for blurring his role. But the Education Department insulted the public\'s intelligence -- and defended essentially an act of bribery -- by describing its arrangement with Mr. Williams as "the straightforward distribution of information about the department\'s mission."'b"The Education Department turned news broadcasts into propaganda. Under the arrangement, Mr. Williams was expected to comment favorably on No Child Left Behind, a centerpiece of the Bush administration's domestic policy. The agreement also gave Mr. Paige and other government officials the option of appearing as studio guests on Mr. Williams's broadcasts -- so they could promote administration policies without fear of being contradicted."b'The Federal Communications Commission now plans to investigate Mr. Williams, and President Bush has called on his cabinet secretaries to make sure that nothing like this happens again. But this debacle is unfortunately consistent with how the Education Department has been run under Mr. Paige. The management has consistently placed ideology ahead of the public interest. It has neglected the core goals of the No Child Left Behind Act -- like strengthening public education by strengthening teachers -- while advancing the interests of religious conservatives and others who favor funds for private school education at public expense. Ms. Spellings has a lot to do. Showing the old management team the door should be high on the list.'b'WASHINGTON - WITH Iraqi elections scheduled to take place in two weeks, many Americans already have one eye on the exit. The Bush administration insists that American troops will stay until a free, stable and peaceful Iraq is established, as Condoleezza Rice did yesterday at her Senate confirmation hearings. But it seems likely that momentum for a speedy withdrawal will increase after the January elections no matter the degree of stability in Iraq.'b'When is the proper time, then, to withdraw the bulk of our 150,000 troops from Iraq? The answer does not lie in the corridors of Washington, but on the streets of Baghdad, Tikrit, Mosul and Falluja. The answer lies with the people of Iraq.'b'As it now stands, there are three situations under which American forces could withdraw: we achieve our goals and depart in triumph; we are asked to leave by the Iraqi government; or we leave Iraq in chaos but spin it as a win. There are obstacles or drawbacks to all three. Achieving our goals may be impossible now with the current levels of insurgency and distrust. Iraqi leaders may be slow to show us the door if we are guaranteeing their security. Lowering our standard of success is unlikely to increase American credibility either at home or abroad.'b"Why not let the Iraqis themselves decide? Ask Iraqi voters in a referendum six weeks after the national elections if they think foreign soldiers should withdraw immediately. Let the Iraqis debate what the absence of American forces will mean for their families and nation. Tell them we'll hold the referendum every nine months until they vote us out or we determine it's time to leave."b'Referendums have proved to be an effective first step to broadening political participation in countries making the transition to democracy, like Chile in 1988, Malawi in 1993 and Albania in 1998. The two questions uppermost in the minds of most Iraqis right now are these: how can we be safe? And when are the foreigners going to leave? A referendum gives Iraqis the power to decide these questions themselves in a more straightforward way than sorting through a ballot of 7,000 candidates or waiting for a new constitution to be written and ratified.'b"The plan has several advantages. First, it affirms an American commitment to self-determination. Such a policy could do as much for spreading democracy in the Middle East as all the support we give to citizens' groups and political parties."b"Second, it steals the thunder from the insurgents. Their support arises from their claim that they are the best chance the country has of kicking out the foreigners. A referendum in Iraq would show that democratic participation, not violence, is Iraq's best chance at full political independence."b'Third, a referendum could help avert civil war. If the American presence has been divisive, a vote that asks us to leave could prove the opposite. One of the most consistent unifying ideologies in Iraq since its inception has been independence from Western control. We ought to harness this ideology to the benefit of the Iraqi people rather than fight it.'b'Fourth, if the majority of Iraqis vote for us to stay, then the United States suddenly has a mandate in Iraq -- one we can use to win hearts and minds, limited by Iraqi sovereignty and the date of the next referendum.'b"And fifth, a referendum gives us an exit strategy, one that affirms the very reasons we went into Iraq in the first place. There's more honor in being voted out than in climbing into helicopters from the roof of the embassy."b'Two criticisms are sure to follow. First, the plan could be perceived as a smokescreen that allows the United States to cut and run. Second, our departure could create a power vacuum, emboldening the insurgents and leading to an anti-American regime or a civil war.'b"Rather than signaling wavering support, however, a referendum would show our commitment to empowering the Iraqis. We're not saying we're leaving; we're saying that it's up to the Iraqi people to decide what's best for themselves. And the results of a referendum may not be as obvious as some people think -- careful consideration of life after a withdrawal may encourage Kurds and Shiites, for example, to back a continued American presence."b'And rather than strengthening the insurgents, a referendum could weaken them considerably, separating those committed to violence or Sunni rule at all costs from those who only want the foreigners gone.'b"Of course, there's nothing to stop the Sunnis from trying to retake power by force once we've left. This could happen, however, whenever American forces decide to depart. There's no guarantee that the Iraqi government will be better able to prevent chaos and civil war if the United States stays longer. But a government that's viewed as legitimate and independent will stand a better chance of defeating the insurgency than battalions of American-trained Iraqi policemen and soldiers."b"Will Iraq's mess be cleaned up overnight if the Iraqis vote for us to withdraw? No, but our withdrawal after a referendum telling us to go would signal a willingness to engage with Iraq as an ally rather than an occupier, a perception that January's elections are unlikely to correct."b'Op-Ed Contributors Frederick Barton and Bathsheba Crocker are co-directors of the Post-Conflict Reconstruction Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Craig Cohen is a researcher there.'b'When the bloodiest prison insurrection in American history occurred at Attica prison in upstate New York in 1971, Liz Fink was 26 years old and a dedicatedly leftist law student. She instantly got involved and spent the first three decades of her career defending the inmates for a rebellion that, it turned out, was brutally ended by waves of indiscriminate shootings, beatings and torture by state troopers and guards. No officials would admit that after the chaos of the morning raid on Sept. 13; instead, the state tried to sell a story that all the deaths in the assault -- 10 hostages and 29 felons -- were the work of inmate sociopaths.'b'A courageous upstate coroner soon put a stop to that official lie with an unshakable forensic finding that each of that day\'s victims was killed by law enforcement gunfire sprayed across the insurrection in D Yard. It was "a turkey shoot," one official eventually conceded as blue-ribbon inquiries documented the mayhem.'b'"We count 2,546 rounds fired in the assault," said Ms. Fink, still a meticulous Attica archivist even though her career fixation theoretically ended four years ago. That was when a federal judge, finding that inmates were treated "like garbage" in the retaliatory raid, parceled out $8 million in state damages to 502 inmates.'b'"Attica was over, except it\'s never over," Ms. Fink said the other day, underlining the fact that even with damages paid, the state continues to resist offering an official apology.'b"Thus must Attica remain a haunting event, even with the news last week that Gov. George Pataki is willing to pay an additional $12 million in compensation -- this time for the prison workers killed and injured in the state troopers' assault. Those non-inmate victims and their families were gulled into token settlements soon after the rebellion, not realizing that they were surrendering their right to sue the state for wrongful death and suffering."b'Their protest since then, voiced as a group called Forgotten Victims of Attica, is finally yielding some results. But, again, one of their chief goals -- a clear state apology -- is still not in sight.'b'For another of their unrealized demands, access to sealed state records, the families might consider turning to Ms. Fink. She has squirreled away stacks of court, grand jury and investigative records across her years of Attica combat, some of them piled high in her Brooklyn apartment.'b'"Of course, they\'ll never do that," she said. "They don\'t accept the humanity of my clients: that\'s the issue of prisons."'b"One of Ms. Fink's clients, Frank Smith -- an ebullient, husky inmate known as Big Black -- guaranteed the security of civilian negotiators who met with the D Yard rebels and brought word of their grievances to the outside world. When Gov. Nelson Rockefeller turned from mediation to the troopers' assault, Mr. Smith was subject to brutal reprisals. He spent the rest of his life spiritedly organizing and pursuing the damage suit against the state as Ms. Fink's paralegal aide. Last August, he died of cancer at home -- a free man, with his wife and Ms. Fink at his side."b'Anyone who was at Attica can recall the ominous sense of that day in the lethal clacking sound of scores of New York troopers locking and loading sniper rifles, shotguns -- even their weekend hunting rifles -- in the predawn of a motel parking lot, then taking off for the final assault.'b'"Attica is moving on to the historians," Ms. Fink estimated 34 years later, as key issues still gnaw at the state despite all of its slowly doled out compensation.'b'In assigning inmate damages five years ago, the federal judge, Michael Telesca, noted the state\'s hope that "the thing would go away." As she roots for the families, Ms. Fink embodies Judge Telesca\'s caution that "just because it is history does not mean it is all in the past."'b'SHORTLY after the 1925 Scopes "monkey trial," the usually astute historian Frederick Lewis Allen concluded that fundamentalism had been permanently discredited by the prosecution in Dayton, Tenn., of John T. Scopes, who had taught his biology students about Darwin\'s theory of evolution. "Legislators might go on passing anti-evolution laws," Allen wrote, "and in the hinterlands the pious might still keep their religion locked in a science-proof compartment of their minds; but civilized opinion everywhere had regarded the Dayton trial with amazement and amusement, and the slow drift away from fundamentalist certainty continued."'b'This was a serious historical misjudgment, as most recently demonstrated by the renewed determination of anti-evolution crusaders -- buoyed by conservative gains in state and local elections -- to force public school science classes to give equal time to religiously based speculation about the origins of life. These challenges to evolution range from old-time biblical literalism, insisting that the universe and man were created in seven days, to the newer "intelligent design," which maintains that if evolution occurred at all it could never be explained by Darwinian natural selection and could only have been directed at every stage by an omniscient creator.'b'Kansas, where evolution opponents regained control of the state board of education in November, is likely to be the first battleground. Proposals to modify the state\'s recommended science curriculum with alternatives to Darwinian evolution will be an issue at statewide public hearings scheduled in February. In Georgia last week, a federal judge ordered a suburban Atlanta school board to remove stickers labeling evolution "a theory, not a fact" from high school biology textbooks, but an appeal seems likely. Other states where the teaching of evolution is on the 2005 legislative or judicial calendar include Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania and South Carolina.'b'Many liberals mistakenly believe that these controversies are largely a product of the post-1980 politicization of the Christian right. In fact, the elected anti-evolutionists on local and state school boards today are the heirs of eight decades of fundamentalist campaigning against Darwinism through back-door pressure on textbook publishers and school officials. Even efforts to cloak creationism with the words "science" and "scientific" -- as in "creation science" -- is an old tactic, reminiscent of the Soviet Union\'s boasting about "scientific communism."'b'More sophisticated proponents of intelligent design, those who are religiously conservative but not insistent on literal adherence to the biblical creation story, use anti-Darwinist arguments from a tiny minority of scientists to bolster their case for a creator. Last month, a group of parents in Dover, Penn., filed the first lawsuit to address the issue, challenging the local school board\'s contention that "intelligent design" is a scientific rather than a religious theory and, therefore, does not violate the separation of church and state.'b'At the beginning of the 20th century, however, America was well on its way to an accommodation between science and mainstream religion, now a fait accompli in the rest of the developed world, that pleases neither atheists nor theocrats manqu\xc3\xa9s but works for almost everyone else. A growing number of Americans accepted both evolution and religion but considered it the responsibility of the church, not public schools, to sort out the role of God. This view was expressed in 1904 by Maynard M. Metcalf, a zoologist and a liberal Christian, who praised the move to exclude religious speculation from the teaching of life sciences.'b"The Scopes trial changed all that. Instead of being the nail in the coffin of creationism as many believe, the trial undermined the emerging accommodation between religion and science by intensifying the fundamentalists' conviction that acceptance of evolution would inevitably weaken any type of faith."b"When the 24-year-old Scopes was charged with violating a state law forbidding the teaching of evolution, his conviction by a jury (later overturned on a technicality) was a foregone conclusion. Clarence Darrow, the nation's most famous lawyer and most famous agnostic, turned a jury defeat into a public relations victory (at least among scientists and intellectuals) by goading William Jennings Bryan, who was assisting the prosecution, into taking the stand as an expert witness on the Bible."b"Bryan, in the view of the Northern press, made a fool of himself. Opponents of evolution, however, lauded Bryan, and the press's ridicule of their hero helped to create the enduring fundamentalist resentment of secular science and secular government that has become such a conspicuous feature of our culture."b'Between the Scopes trial and the early 1930\'s, "science-proof" fundamentalists pressured publishers into excising discussions of evolution -- and often the word itself -- from biology textbooks. The nature of that success is literally illustrated by a change between the 1921 first edition of "Biology for Beginners," a standard text by Truman Moon, and the second edition, published in 1926. The 1921 edition appeared with a portrait of Darwin on the frontispiece. Five years later, Darwin had been replaced by a drawing of the human digestive tract.'b'Texas, then as now one of the largest textbook purchasers, led the drive to extirpate evolution. "I am a Christian mother," said Gov. Miriam Ferguson of Texas." "And I am not going to let that kind of rot go into Texas textbooks." Mrs. Ferguson personally censored textbooks while presiding over the statehouse from 1924 to 1926. Censorship was soon institutionalized in a state commission that scrutinized all potential textbooks.'b'The caution inspired by such pressure extended beyond the Bible Belt and persisted for decades. In 1959, the Harvard University paleontologist George G. Simpson (a b\xc3\xaate noire on creationist Web sites today) noted that most American high school science texts relegated evolution to a separate, optional section.'b'Perhaps the most insidious effect of the campaign against evolution has been avoidance of the subject by teachers, who, whatever their convictions, want to forestall trouble with fundamentalist parents. Recent surveys of high school biology teachers have found that avoidance of evolution is common among instructors throughout the nation.'b"The singular achievement of the fundamentalist minority has been to render evolution controversial enough to silence many teachers who know better. Only now, when the religious right is no longer satisfied with avoidance but is demanding that schools add anti-Darwinist intelligent design to the curriculum, are defenders of evolution fighting back against the intimidation that has worked so well since the premature declaration of the death of fundamentalism in the 1920's."b'Op-Ed Contributor Susan Jacoby, director of the Center for Inquiry-Metro New York, is the author of "Freethinkers: A History of American Secularism."'b"Yesterday, Gov. George Pataki presented a $105.5 billion budget for next year that attempts to tackle one of the state's thorniest and most costly issues: Medicaid spending. Mr. Pataki is right to attempt to reform New York's $44 billion Medicaid program, which shoves too much of its cost onto local communities. It's not clear yet, however, whether this major overhaul of the health care program for the disadvantaged and the elderly would be as humane as it appears to be thrifty."b'In recent years, the soaring costs of Medicaid have meant a spike in property taxes for communities trying to pony up their allotted share of state health costs. Mr. Pataki is now promising to get the state to take over Medicaid, as long as the Legislature agrees to cuts in services for participants and new taxes for health care providers.'b'Medicaid reform will be a particularly complex issue, not only because of the human needs involved but also because of powerful political forces at play in New York and in Washington. In New York State, Mr. Pataki faces a particularly muscular army of lobbyists for hospitals and health care. And he will be taking a gamble that in Washington, Congress will adjust its financing system rather than merely cutting matching funds to New York as the state scales back costs. One concern is that Congress might simply opt for "block grants" for Medicaid, a method that would make it all too easy for Congress to stick the states with future cost increases.'b'Mr. Pataki\'s budget, which also includes disappointing sums for New York City schools and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, is usually the opening bid in the annual budget minuet in Albany. This year, however, the presentation, especially on Medicaid, felt more like a final offer. The difference is that in December, New York\'s highest court ruled that the power to make the state budget rested decisively with the governor. The Legislature\'s role is merely to "refuse to act on the budget pending negotiations," the court said, meaning that legislators can essentially stall the budget but not amend it. If stalling is the Legislature\'s only real tool in its negotiations with the governor, especially on a difficult issue like Medicaid, it\'s going to be a very long budget season again in New York State.'b"Don't ask, don't tell -- just scream in frustration: it turns out that 20 of the Arabic speakers so vitally needed by the nation have been thrown out of the military since 1998 because they were found to be gay. It is hard to imagine a more wrongheaded rebuff of national priorities. The focus must be on the search for Osama bin Laden and his terrorist legions, not the closet door. The Pentagon's snooping after potential gays trumps what every investigative agency in the war on terror has admitted is a crucial shortage of effective Arabic translators."b'After the first World Trade Center attack, in 1993, government agents revealed an alarming shortage of Arabic speakers. Key notes, videotapes and a phone call pertaining to the attack were later found in a backlog of untranslated investigative data. The shortage continued right up to and well beyond the 9/11 attacks. Three years after the towers were destroyed, the F.B.I., rife with translation problems, admitted it had an untranslated backlog of 120,000 hours of intercepts with potential value about looming threats. At the State Department, a study showed that only one in five of the 279 Arabic translators were fluent enough to handle the subtleties of the language, with its many regional dialects.'b'The military\'s experience is no more encouraging, with intelligence results muddied at times by a rush, as one inquiry put it, to recruit Arab convenience store owners and cabdrivers, who couldn\'t handle the task. The military is right to rely more on its language schools, but it can take several years to produce fluent graduates. The folly of using "don\'t ask, don\'t tell" policy against such precious national resources amounts to comfort for the enemy.'b'When President Bush was asked last week by The Washington Post why Osama bin Laden had eluded capture, he replied, "Because he\'s hiding." So is the Pentagon -- it\'s hiding from reality.'b'The continuing high costs of the Iraq war are finally forcing the Pentagon to pare back its order lists for unneeded and extravagant cold war weapons. That should have been done years ago. The Defense Department will have to go well beyond its current cost-cutting plans if it wants to be able to afford the ground-warfare soldiers and battle systems it desperately needs today and to develop the more advanced weaponry likely to be needed in coming decades. Even the spendthrift Bush administration recognizes that it can no longer afford to keep buying all the wish-list weapons designed in the late 20th century for fighting a high-tech superpower foe.'b"Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, compelled for the first time to make hard budget choices, is mainly starting with the right targets. The Air Force and Navy are now being asked to trim spending on some of their less essential new weapons systems over the next six years. The cutbacks will reduce deliveries of the Air Force's cherished but indefensible F/A-22 stealth fighter. Production timetables will be slowed for the Navy's new Virginia-class nuclear submarines and a new destroyer still under development. Roughly half of the $55 billion in the expected savings will be transferred to Army programs. The rest will allow the military budget to rise at a slower rate than previously projected. But it will rise all the same, to record levels, even without counting the direct costs of the Iraq war, which continues to be misleadingly financed through separate spending measures."b'Unfortunately, Mr. Rumsfeld is proceeding much too tentatively, reducing programs that should be eliminated and reaping current savings by merely deferring wasteful purchases to future budget years. The long, wasteful history of Pentagon budgeting clearly demonstrates that the only way to terminate weapons that no longer make sense is to kill them outright. Otherwise, military-contractor lobbyists are sure to mobilize every member of Congress whose district could lose jobs to get production lines back into operation.'b'Those contractor counteroffensives usually succeed because it is very hard to argue against the combination of high-performance weapons and local jobs. To make the case for his proposed cuts, Mr. Rumsfeld may want to remind protesting lawmakers in the House and Senate who ultimately bear the real cost of wasteful and misdirected Pentagon spending: the American soldiers and marines sent into battle in places like Iraq, where stealth fighters and nuclear submarines are not particularly useful and ground troops, armor and working vehicles are chronically in short supply.'b'This nation spends more on its military than any other in history, and nearly as much as the rest of the world combined. Directing more of that money toward real defense needs is long overdue.'b"Cambridge, Mass. - BY now, most of the people I know should be Canadians. At least that's what they said they'd be if President Bush won re-election. And yet, my unofficial tally suggests that the number of disgruntled Democrats who actually emigrated northward is roughly zero, plus or minus none."b"November saw more than its share of cursing, wailing and gnashing of teeth in some quarters, but by the middle of December the weeping had largely subsided and most of the people I know were busy buying gifts. With the exception of the junior senator from Massachusetts and a few hundred others whose lives and livelihoods hinged on the election's outcome, most Democrats had a good cry, kicked something until it broke, then slipped quietly back into their daily routines of family, work and television."b"The speed and ease with which normalcy returned should not have surprised anyone. In the last decade, psychologists and economists have conducted numerous studies to determine how accurately people can predict their emotional reactions to future events. They've studied people's responses to misfortunes ranging from romantic breakups to financial losses, from personal insults to personal injuries, and the results of these studies have converged on a single conclusion: people typically overestimate the intensity and duration of their emotional reactions to adversity."b"Mr. Bush in particular has been breaking Democratic hearts since he first ran for governor in Texas in 1994. But studies of that and subsequent elections reveal that voters were rarely as unhappy a few weeks after he won as they predicted they would be when they were doing their best to help him lose. And it wasn't Mr. Bush's performance that changed their minds, because those who voted against him returned to their original levels of happiness even before he was sworn in."b'So what happened? Research suggests that human beings have a remarkable ability to manufacture happiness. For example, when people in experiments are randomly awarded one of two equally valuable prizes, they quickly come to believe that the prize they won was more valuable than the prize they lost. They are often so surprised by their apparent good fortune that they refuse to believe the prize was awarded randomly, and they are generally unwilling to swap their prizes even when the experimenter offers to sweeten the deal with a little extra cash.'b'Things do seem to turn out for the best -- but studies suggest that this has less to do with the way things turn out than with our natural tendency to seek, notice, remember, generate and uncritically accept information that makes us happy.'b"Our ability to spin gold from the dross of our experience means that we often find ourselves flourishing in circumstances we once dreaded. We fear divorces, natural disasters and financial hardships until they happen, at which point we recognize them as opportunities to reinvent ourselves, to bond with our neighbors and to transcend the spiritual poverty of material excess. When the going gets tough, the mind gets going on a hunt for silver linings, and most linings are sufficiently variegated to reward the mind's quest."b'So when President Bush puts his hand on the Bible today and begins his second term, Republicans will not be the only ones thinking about how lucky they are. Democrats will surely remind one another that the dollar is down, the deficit is up, foreign relations are in disarray and the party that presides over this looming miasma may well have elected its last president for decades to come.'b'At the same time, Democrats will tell themselves that they did everything they could -- they wrote more checks and cast more ballots than ever before -- so if the president and his party insist that Democrats now enjoy a fat tax break, then why feel guilty? And they will inevitably note that if just over half the fans at an Ohio State football game had voted for John Kerry instead of the president, a different man would be taking the oath of office today.'b"In short, Democrats will realize that winning isn't always such a good thing -- and besides, they almost won."b'Of course, not everyone will be happy today, because not everyone has this talent for reasoning his way to happiness. Throughout history, there have always been a few unfortunates who found it impossible to reframe negative events in positive ways, and these poor souls were predictably less happy than the rest of us. Lincoln, for example, was perpetually melancholic. Martin Luther King Jr. had more bad than good days. "Suffering and evil often overwhelm me," said Gandhi from the midst of a depression, "and I stew in my own juice."'b'Many of the heroes and redeemers we most admire were unhappy people who found it impossible to change how they felt about the world -- which left them no choice but to change the world itself. Outrage, anger, fear and frustration are unpleasant emotions that most of us vanquish through artful reasoning; but unpleasant emotions can also be spurs to action -- clamorous urges that we may silence at our peril.'b'As we watch the inauguration today, Republicans will take satisfaction in their victory and Democrats will find satisfaction in their defeat. But tomorrow it will be a nation -- and not a party -- that faces the dire problems of war, terrorism, poverty and intolerance. Perhaps over the next four years we would all be wise to suppress our natural talent for happiness and strive instead to be truly, deeply distressed.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Daniel Gilbert, a professor of psychology at Harvard, is the author of the forthcoming "Stumbling on Happiness."'b'Lawrence Summers, the president of Harvard, has been pilloried for suggesting that women may be biologically unsuited to succeed at mathematics.'b'He may have a point.'b'Just look at Condoleezza Rice.'b"She's clearly a well-educated, intelligent woman, versed in Brahms and the Bolsheviks, who has just been rewarded for her loyalty with the most plum assignment in the second Bush cabinet."b'Yet her math skills are woefully inadequate.'b"She can't do simple equations. She doesn't even know that X times zero equals zero. If you multiply 1,370 dead soldiers times zero weapons of mass destruction, that equals zero achievement for Ms. Rice, who helped the president and vice president bamboozle the country into war."b"Was Condi out doing figure eights at the ice skating rink when she should have been home learning her figures? She couldn't have spent much time studying classic word problems: If two trains leave Chicago at noon, one going south at 20 miles an hour and one going north at 30 miles an hour, how far will each have gotten by midnight?"b"Otherwise, she might have realized that if two cars leave the Baghdad airport at noon on the main highway into the capital of Iraq, neither one is going to get there with any living passengers. Our 22 months at war have not added up to that one major highway's being secured."b"It's lucky for Ms. Rice that she's serving with men who are just as lame at numbers as she is. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz couldn't be bothered to tally correctly the number of dead soldiers when he testified before Congress. And his boss, Donald Rumsfeld, didn't realize that using an autopen signature on more than 1,000 letters to the relatives of fallen troops added up to zero solace."b"Our new top diplomat has obviously not mastered fractions. When she asserted during her confirmation hearing that 120,000 Iraqi troops had been trained, Senator Joe Biden corrected her, saying she was off by a bit. His calculation of trained Iraqi troops was actually 4,000 -- hers was 30 times that. Maybe she's confusing hyperbole and hypotenuse."b"Her geometry is skewed if she thinks she'll now be more powerful than Rummy and Dick Cheney. Doesn't she know that the Pentagon has more sides than her Crawford triangle with George and Laura?"b'She could at least have read "The Da Vinci Code." Then she would have learned about Fibonacci numbers, a recurring mathematical pattern in nature. When you invade a country, you should expect an insurgency. Or, as Fibonacci might have calculated it, if you kill one jihadist, two more arrive to take his place; if you kill three, five more pop up; if you get five, eight more appear, and so on.'b'The incoming secretary of state and her colleagues are, alas, also lousy at economics. After Bush officials promised that the postwar expenses would be covered by Iraqi oil revenues, we find ourselves spending $1 billion a week of our own money.'b'Ms. Rice and her fellow imperialists know so little about physics that they arrogantly jumped into "spooky action at a distance," turning the country they had hoped to make into a model democracy into a training ground for international terrorists, a nucleus for a new generation of radioactively dangerous fanatics.'b"How could they forget Newton's third law: for every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction?"b'The administration needs a lesson in subtraction. How do we subtract our troops and replace them with Iraqi troops while the terrorists keep subtracting Iraqi troops with car bombs and rocket-propelled grenades?'b"Condi may not know Einstein's theory of relativity, but she has a fine grasp of Cheney's theory of moral relativity. Because they're the good guys, they can do anything: dissembling to get into war; flattening Iraqi cities to save them; replacing the Geneva Conventions with unconventional ways of making prisoners talk. The only equation the Bushies know is this one: Might = Right."b"It is puzzling that if you add X (no exit strategy) to Y (Why are we there?) you get W2: George Bush's second inauguration."b'At Condi\'s hearing, she justified the Bush administration\'s misadventures by saying history would prove it right. "I know enough about history to stand back and to recognize that you judge decisions not at the moment, but in how it all adds up," she told a skeptical Senator Biden.'b"Problem is, she's calculating, but she can't add. For now, Sam Cooke is right about the Bushies. They don't know much about history."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b'PARIS'b"Watching George Bush's second inaugural from a bistro in Paris is like watching the Red Sox win the World Series from a sports bar in New York City. Odds are that someone around you is celebrating - I mean, someone, somewhere in Europe must be happy about this - but it's not obvious."b'Why are Europeans so blue over George Bush\'s re-election? Because Europe is the world\'s biggest "blue state." This whole region is a rhapsody in blue. These days, even the small group of anti-anti-Americans in the European Union is uncomfortable being associated with Mr. Bush. There are Euro-conservatives, but, aside from, maybe, the ruling party in Italy, there is nothing here that quite corresponds to the anti-abortion, anti-gay, anti-tax, anti-national-health-care, anti-Kyoto, openly religious, pro-Iraq-war Bush Republican Party.'b'If you took all three major parties in Britain - Labor, Liberals and Conservatives - "their views on God, guns, gays, the death penalty, national health care and the environment would all fit somewhere inside the Democratic Party," said James Rubin, the Clinton State Department spokesman, who works in London. "That\'s why I get along with all three parties here. They\'re all Democrats!"'b'While officially every European government is welcoming the inauguration of President Bush, the prevailing mood on the continent (if I may engage in a ridiculously sweeping generalization!) still seems to be one of shock and awe that Americans actually re-elected this man.'b'Before Mr. Bush\'s re-election, the prevailing attitude in Europe was definitely: "We\'re not anti-American. We\'re anti-Bush." But now that the American people have voted to re-elect Mr. Bush, Europe has a problem maintaining this distinction. The logic of the Europeans\' position is that they should now be anti-American, not just anti-Bush, but most Europeans don\'t seem to want to go there. They know America is more complex. So there is a vague hope in the air that when Mr. Bush visits Europe next month, he\'ll come bearing an olive branch that will enable both sides to at least pretend to hold this loveless marriage together for the sake of the kids.'b'"Europeans were convinced that Kerry had won on election night and were telling themselves that they knew all along that Americans were not all that bad - and then suddenly, as the truth emerged, there was a feeling of slow resignation: \'Oh well, we\'ve been dreaming,\' " said Dominique Moisi, one of France\'s top foreign policy analysts. "In fact, real America is moving away from us. We don\'t share the same values. ... In France it was a very emotional issue. It was as if Americans were voting for the president of France as much as for president of the United States."'b"That sense that America is now so powerful that it influences everyone else's politics more than their own governments - so everyone wants to vote in our elections - is something you hear more and more these days."b'Elizabeth Angell, a 23-year-old American studying at Oxford, told me that a Pakistani friend at school had asked her if he could just watch her fill out her absentee ballot for the U.S. election. "He said to me, \'It\'s the closest thing I am going to get to voting. ... I wish I could vote in your election because your government affects my daily life more than my own.\' "'b'The one concrete result of the U.S. election will probably be to reinforce Europe\'s focus on its own efforts to build a United States of Europe, and to further play down the trans-Atlantic alliance. "When it comes to emotions, the re-election of Bush has reinforced the feeling of alienation between Europe and the U.S.," Mr. Moisi said. "It is not that we are so much against America, it is that we cannot understand the evolution of that country. ... This election has weakened the concept of \'the West.\' "'b"Funnily enough, the one country on this side of the ocean that would have elected Mr. Bush is not in Europe, but the Middle East: it's Iran, where many young people apparently hunger for Mr. Bush to remove their despotic leaders, the way he did in Iraq."b'An Oxford student who had just returned from research in Iran told me that young Iranians were "loving anything their government hates," such as Mr. Bush, "and hating anything their government loves." Tehran is festooned in "Down With America" graffiti, the student said, but when he tried to take pictures of it, the Iranian students he was with urged him not to. They said it was just put there by their government and was not how most Iranians felt.'b'Iran, he said, is the ultimate "red state." Go figure.'b'Peter Kalikow, who was appointed by Gov. George Pataki to head the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, believes that the state should support the current core services in the New York City area, while putting off any major expansion plans until better financial times. It seemed for a while that the governor might agree. But although some details are still a little fuzzy, the budget Mr. Pataki unveiled this week seems to miss the point.'b'To ward off a descent into the bad old days of a few decades ago, the M.T.A. says, it needs $17.2 billion over five years. In his $105.5 billion budget for the next fiscal year, Mr. Pataki seems ready to give the M.T.A.\'s core only about $15 billion, and even that number counts on federal transportation funds and the sale of M.T.A. assets. That\'s a major drop, a big "delta," as they say in the transit business.'b"The governor's proposal for downstate transit, which includes another dollop of funds for roads and bridges in the city and upstate, also adds $4 billion for expanding the city subway system. A hefty $2 billion would come from New York City for the extension of subway service into the Far West Side of Manhattan. The remainder would go for other possible additions, like the Second Avenue Subway and East Side access to Grand Central Terminal."b"Mr. Pataki does deserve credit for looking for new sources of revenue for mass transit -- he has proposed dedicating the proceeds from a slight surcharge on mortgage transfer taxes and additional fees for registering vehicles, particularly the bigger S.U.V.'s. But he has shied away from raising corporate taxes and the petroleum business tax, as suggested last year by Mr. Kalikow. Mr. Pataki's desire to avoid tax increases is understandable, but the budget he's proposing seems likely to lead to cuts in service or in maintenance, or the need to squeeze more revenue out of the riders. Commuters in the metropolitan area have faced two fare increases in two years, with another uptick possible for 2006. That's a lot for Mr. Pataki to ask from New York City's eight million commuters."b"Most humans have never seen a gray-headed albatross or, for that matter, any albatross. And for good reason. The gray-headed albatross breeds in grassy tufts set high on the cliffs of remote islands in the seas just north of Antarctica. But the bird's true habitat is the tumultuous air above those seas. In April 1999, scientists fixed tiny locaters to the albatrosses in a cohort breeding on Bird Island, near South Georgia. The data retrieved -- a map of the migratory patterns of 22 birds -- will help scientists understand where albatrosses are most likely to cross paths with fishing boats, which often hook and kill the birds with baited hooks floating just under the water's surface. That could make all the difference to this species, which belongs to the most threatened family of birds on the planet."b'This research also turned up some surprising glimpses of how albatrosses live. It was already known that they could fly at astonishingly high speeds with Antarctic storms at their backs, and scientists had guessed that the birds were capable of spending great lengths of time aloft. But half the birds in this study flew around the world -- as much as 14,000 miles -- and one of them did so in 46 days. This implies an ability simply to live on the wing, to rest and forage while making constant headway toward the east and, ultimately, their breeding grounds.'b'As so often happens, the more we come to know about the life of any individual species, the better we understand how extensive the human impact on this planet really is. Few things seem more remote from our daily lives than the peregrinations of an albatross in the southernmost latitudes. And yet those birds, when they feed, are all too often the immediate victims of our appetite for fish.'b"It's hard to say how many albatrosses are lost to legal and illegal long-lining ships, which trail enormous numbers of baited hooks behind them. But some estimates say they kill as many as 100,000 birds per year. The long-lining fishing fleet is overharvesting the air as well as the sea."b"Few figures have played a larger role in shaping today's China, particularly its most positive features, than Zhao Ziyang, the former Communist Party leader who died Monday after more than 15 years of house arrest. In trying to treat his death as virtually a state secret, China's current leaders reveal more than they intend about their own profound feelings of political insecurity. Powerful as they are, China's rulers have let themselves be spooked by a ghost, even to the point of defying the tradition of granting full official funeral honors to ranking former leaders, regardless of ideological differences. It may be possible to airbrush Mr. Zhao temporarily out of official Communist iconography. In the long term, China's people will surely reclaim a more honest history."b'Mr. Zhao lived quietly and obscurely after being purged during the Tiananmen Square upheaval of 1989. But his great legacy, the market-based reforms of which he was the principal architect, have fundamentally reshaped China, liberating pent-up economic energy, powering decades of growth and lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty.'b"Official history books now credit those reforms to Deng Xiaoping, Mr. Zhao's early mentor and later persecutor. Yet it was Mr. Zhao, at considerable political risk and personal cost, who largely designed them and put them into effect, first as a provincial leader in the 1960's and 1970's, and then nationally, as prime minister and party leader in the 1980's. In agriculture, where most Chinese still work, he led the way in dismantling the failed and stultifying commune system, replacing it with private land plots and economic rewards for increased production. Then he moved on to industry, loosening state controls and promoting the coastal special economic zones that became the primary engines of China's long export-led boom."b"Mr. Zhao also had the long-term vision to recognize that economic liberalization would need to be complemented by political liberalization: greater democracy, freer speech and the growing rule of law. Those views cost him Mr. Deng's support and led to his ouster when he argued against sending troops against the students in Tiananmen Square. The outcome of that 1989 power struggle, a model that uneasily joins freewheeling economic pragmatism to Soviet-style political dictatorship, has been official orthodoxy ever since. That is what makes Mr. Zhao's memory so inconvenient for today's leaders. Only when political freedom revives in China will he be given his due.   DAVID C. UNGER"b'Watching the inaugural ceremonies yesterday reminded me of the scenes near the end of "The Godfather" in which a solemn occasion (a baptism in the movie) is interspersed with a series of spectacularly violent murders.'b"Even as President Bush was taking the oath of office and delivering his Inaugural Address beneath the clear, cold skies of Washington, the news wires were churning out stories about the tragic mayhem in Iraq. There is no end in sight to the carnage, which was unleashed nearly two years ago by President Bush's decision to launch this wholly unnecessary war, one of the worst presidential decisions in American history."b'Incredibly, with more than 1,360 American troops dead and more than 10,000 wounded, and with scores of thousands of Iraqis dead and wounded, the president never once mentioned the word Iraq in his Inaugural Address. He avoided all but the most general references to the war. Lyndon Johnson used to agonize over the war that unraveled his presidency. Mr. Bush, riding the crest of his re-election wave, seems not to be similarly bothered.'b'In January 1945, with World War II still raging, Franklin Roosevelt insisted on a low-key inauguration. Already gravely ill, he began his address by saying, "Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, my friends, you will understand and, I believe, agree with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its words brief."'b'Times have changed. President Bush and his equally tone-deaf supporters spent the past few days partying hard while Americans, Iraqis and others continued to suffer and die in the Iraq conflagration. Nothing was too good for the princes and princesses of the new American plutocracy. Tens of millions of dollars were spent on fireworks, cocktail receptions, gala dinners and sumptuous balls.'b'Ten thousand people, including the president and Laura Bush, turned out Wednesday night for the Black Tie and Boots Ball. According to The Associated Press, one of the guests, Lorian Sessions of San Antonio, "donned a new pair of black kangaroo boots, decorated with a white star and embroidery, with an aqua-colored mink wrap she bought on sale at Saks."'b'An article in The Washington Post mentioned a peace activist who complained that the money lavished on the balls would have been better spent on body armor for under-equipped troops in Iraq.'b'As the well-heeled Bush crowd was laughing and dancing in tuxedos and designer gowns, the situation in Iraq was deteriorating to new levels of horror. The Black Tie and Boots Ball was held on the same day that 26 people were killed in five powerful car and truck bombs in Baghdad. With the elections just a week and a half away, American commanders, according to John F. Burns of The Times, are seeking "to prepare public opinion in Iraq and abroad for one of the bloodiest chapters in the war so far."'b"A photo at the end of Mr. Burns's article showed an Iraqi National Guard member carrying the remains of a suicide bomber in a garbage bag."b"The disconnect between the over-the-top celebrations in Washington and the hideous reality of Iraq does not in any way surprise me. It's exactly what we should expect from the president and his supporters, who seem always to exist in a fantasy realm far removed from such ugly realities as war and suffering. In that realm you can start wars without having to deal with the consequences of them. You don't even have to pay for them. You can put them on a credit card."b"People traveling in the real world may see Iraq as a place where bombings, kidnappings and assassinations are an integral part of daily life; where police officers are blown to pieces as they line up for their pay; where innocent men, women and children are slain by the thousands for no good reason; where cities like Falluja are leveled in order to save them; where America's overwhelming superiority in firepower has not been enough to win the war; and where the upcoming elections seem very much like a joke since many of the candidates have to keep their identities secret and the locations of many polling places remain undisclosed."b'People traveling in the real world may see Iraq that way. But in the fantasy-laden Bush realm, Iraq is a place where freedom is on the march. So why not raise a toast to freedom, and dance the night away.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"Every road trip is a narrative of sorts, or at least that's what we like to tell ourselves, in a Kerouac kind of way. But most trips are really nothing of the sort. The long-ago days when a cross-country driver could count on a flat tire to give him a close-up view of the countryside -- when there were no freeways and the way West was along a two-lane highway -- were, well, long ago. Now the narrative, such as it is, is the smooth hum of tires, refueling at automatic, credit-card-reading gas pumps, stopping for the night at motels that do their best to be unvarying coast to coast."b"You have to drive quite a ways off the Interstate to get to a town that hasn't been distorted by the dark commercial gravity of so much traffic so near at hand. And even then it's hard to find a good place to eat."b'My wife, Lindy, and I recently drove from our farm north of New York City to California. This trip had a narrative. It was called "Middlemarch," by George Eliot. We slipped the first cassette into the car stereo somewhere near Albany -- "Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty " -- and we finished the last one -- "and rest in unvisited tombs" -- somewhere between Bakersfield and Fresno. In heavy traffic, or when one of us wanted to sleep, we turned the novel off. The rest of the time we listened. It so happens that America is as wide as "Middlemarch" is long, at 70 m.p.h. along the southern route.'b'A novel is really a temporal creation. It is as much about the ways in which time passes in the story and in the reader\'s awareness of the story as it is about anything else. If you sat in a room and read "Middlemarch" or listened to it being read, you would become very aware of the time it took. But for us, the novel became a spatial creation. It was as though we were driving along a pavement of Eliot\'s sentences laid end to end across the country.'b'Now and then -- Eliot does have occasional longueurs -- we found ourselves working our way up a difficult passage, climbing a switchback from clause to clause. But for the most part it was smooth sailing. It felt, at the best of times, as though the occupants of Middlemarch, that provincial town, were riding with us in the back seat -- Peter Featherstone and Mary Garth and poor Lydgate.'b'I had read "Middlemarch" several times before this trip, but I had never heard it. No matter how well you remember a novel you\'ve read, hearing it read aloud is like finding another book within it. I had forgotten how vividly Eliot captures the gossiping life of Middlemarch -- how distinct the voices of even the smallest characters can be as they talk about the coming of the railway or the chances of reform or the troubles of the evangelical Mr. Bulstrode. Lindy and I rode along, cocooned in the voices we were hearing, and it was as if the acoustic space within the car became a psychological space, a place where we could hear Eliot dissect, with a surgeon\'s grace, the inner mind of Dorothea Brooke.'b'Outside, the trucks roared past, or we roared past the trucks. The Virginia countryside gave way to Tennessee, Arkansas and Texas, and finally New Mexico, Arizona and California. Wooden fences gave way to barbed wire and welded pipe. The landscape was American, of course -- an America adulterated by the effects of I-40. And yet, in a certain sense, we drove from New York to California by way of Loamshire, the fictional county in which "Middlemarch" is set. It should have seemed incongruous to be hearing about "the hayricks at Stone Court" while looking out at the brush of West Texas, and yet it wasn\'t. The weather seemed to darken whenever we entered the forbidding territory of Mr. Casaubon\'s thoughts. It brightened whenever Dorothea appeared, no matter how hard the rain was falling.'b'The human mind has a propensity to give in to the story at hand. We stop reading aloud when the children get to a certain age, and yet there is a craving for the sound of a story that never goes away. Lindy and I tried to imagine a movie of "Middlemarch" -- there is a 1994 version with Judi Dench as the voice of George Eliot -- but no visual representation of the story could be as powerful as the story the words themselves deliver -- as powerful as the story those words kindle in us. The greatness of "Middlemarch" is that it does not leave us on the surface of its characters, understanding how they feel only from the gestures they make. It takes us deeper inside them than the camera could ever go.'b'I suppose that if adults still read aloud to each other the way they did in centuries past we would get a lot less reading done. I can certainly read "Middlemarch" much faster than I can listen to it. But when we got to California, one of the first things I did was borrow a copy from the library. I seemed to recognize every sentence, as if this one were the water tower of a small Tennessee town and that one were a pasture in the oak hills of California.'b'The individual who occupies the White House is almost always at the center of American political life, but Inauguration Day is about the presidency, not the president. So it was fitting that the noontime ceremony in Washington yesterday focused less on George W. Bush himself than the office he has been elected to occupy for another four years. The presence on the Capitol steps of Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton underscored that, as did the bipartisan phalanx of dignitaries. From the solemn oath-taking to the seemingly endless parade of marching bands from red states and blue, everything underscored the message of legitimacy and acceptance.'b"The victors had plenty of time, starting with the exclusive, high-roller parties last night, to bask in triumph. If the inauguration itself works as it's supposed to work, the most important participants are the Americans who did not vote for the man who's being sworn in. They're called upon to acknowledge the chief executive, and at least come to terms with the process that got him there. The president is expected to deliver an address that emphasizes the basic principles that unite the country."b'On that count, George W. Bush did his job. "Across the generations," he said, "we have proclaimed the imperative of self-government because no one is fit to be a master and no one deserves to be a slave." He echoed presidents of both parties when he called upon a new generation to "make the choice to serve a cause larger than your wants, larger than yourself."'b"The moment of national unity isn't meant to be very long, and before the last precision drill squad had passed the presidential viewing stand on Pennsylvania Avenue, Democrats were pointing out that Mr. Bush glossed over the mess in Iraq, dodged specifics about his agenda and gave little indication of how exactly he intended to carry out that promise to try to heal the nation's political divisions."b"All that is certainly true, but it missed the point of Mr. Bush's role, which was to summon the generalities that unite us. The rest should wait for another day; our least favorite parts of the speech, in fact, were those that tended toward the specific, like the barely hidden commercial for the president's plan to privatize parts of Social Security. Mr. Bush's declarations about promoting global democracy ring true as a statement of American ideals, not as a claim for the legitimacy of any particular policies."b"Once in a long while, a newly sworn-in president moves beyond the deeply felt but slightly bland oratory and says something that people will repeat long after he has moved into history. Mr. Bush's speech did not seem in danger of becoming immortal, but its universal intent suited the day."b'Montgomery, Ala. - MORE than 2,500 years ago, the Athenian leader Draco codified the laws of his city-state, which was then suffering from political and social unrest. According to Plutarch, "Death was appointed for almost all offenses, insomuch that those that were convicted of idleness were to die, and those who stole a cabbage or an apple to suffer even as villains who committed sacrilege or murder."'b'However repressive Draco\'s code may have seemed to later generations -- and it spawned its own pejorative adjective, "draconian" -- it was well intentioned. Draco sought to replace a relatively arbitrary system of oral law that had been maintained by the nobility. His written code of crime and punishment provided more power to the state as an arbiter of justice and ensured greater uniformity in the meting out of punishments. Yet Draco\'s efforts to institute a one-punishment-fits-all system of sentencing eventually became viewed as barbarously severe, and his code was repealed.'b"Draco's example is especially relevant in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision last week, in United States v. Booker, that the sentencing guidelines federal judges have used for criminal offenders for more than 20 years were advisory, not mandatory. Since the court's holding may increase trial judges' discretion in sentencing -- and since the court itself invited a legislative response -- some members of Congress are sure to propose more statutory sentencing rules, like more and harsher minimum sentences."b'Yet amid the confusion that will undoubtedly follow this decision, we should keep in mind one basic principle: neither consistency nor codification guarantees justice. While few if any are calling for a return to the practically unfettered discretion that judges had before the sentencing guidelines came into effect, the nuances of individual cases necessitate a certain fluidity in imposing punishment. Congress should seek to shape judicial discretion, not to lock it in a vise.'b'A sentencing scheme that provides different punishments for offenders with similar backgrounds who are convicted of similar crimes under similar circumstances is clearly unjust. Yet so is one that provides comparable punishments for offenders with different backgrounds who are convicted of similar crimes under different circumstances.'b"Ultimately, it is the trial judge who is in the best position to distinguish between these two sets of circumstances, although Congress's guidance is critical in ensuring that one standard of justice exists throughout the federal court system. It is the judge who can appreciate the full complexity of the offender and his crime, and no prescriptive set of laws can appreciate the subtleties in determining the punishment that justice demands. If the 600-plus pages of the most recent set of sentencing guidelines have taught us anything, it is that punishment cannot be reduced to an algorithm."b"As Congress begins to consider its response to the Supreme Court's decision, may all of us be mindful of both the past and the future, so that generations to come do not use our own lawmakers' names as synonyms for a harsh and unforgiving legal system."b'Op-Ed Contributor Myron H. Thompson is a federal district court judge.'b'Washington - On his way out of the first Cabinet meeting after his re-election, President Bush gave his longtime chief speechwriter the theme for the second Inaugural Address: "I want this to be the freedom speech."'b'In the next month, the writer, Michael Gerson, had a heart attack. With two stents in his arteries, the recovering writer received a call from a president who was careful not to apply any deadline pressure. "I\'m not calling to see if the inaugural speech is O.K.," Bush said. "I\'m calling to see if the guy writing the inaugural speech is O.K."'b'Yesterday\'s strongly thematic address was indeed "the freedom speech." Not only did the words "freedom, free, liberty" appear 49 times, but the president used the world-watched occasion to expound his basic reason for the war and his vision of America\'s mission in the world.'b'I rate it among the top five of a score of second-inaugurals in our history. Lincoln\'s profound sermon "with malice toward none" is incomparable, but Bush\'s second was better than Jefferson\'s mean-spirited pouting at "the artillery of the press."'b'In Bush\'s "second gathering" (Lincoln called it his "second appearing"), the Texan evoked J.F.K.\'s "survival of liberty" phrase to convey his central message: "The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands." Bush repeated that internationalist human-rights idea, with a slight change, in these words: "The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world."'b'The change in emphasis was addressed to accommodationists who make "peace" and "the peace process" the No. 1 priority of foreign policy. Others of us -- formerly known as hardliners, now called Wilsonian idealists -- put freedom first, recalling that the U.S. has often had to go to war to gain and preserve it. Bush makes clear that it is human liberty, not peace, that takes precedence, and that it is tyrants who enslave peoples, start wars and provoke revolution. Thus, the spread of freedom is the prerequisite to world peace.'b'It takes guts to take on that peace-freedom priority so starkly. Bush, by retaliatory and pre-emptive decisions in his first term -- and by his choice of words and his tall stance in this speech, and despite his unmodulated delivery -- now drives his critics batty by exuding a buoyant confidence reminiscent of F.D.R. and Truman.'b'He promised to use America\'s influence "confidently in freedom\'s cause." He jabbed at today\'s Thomases: "Some, I know, have questioned the global appeal of liberty, though this time in history, four decades defined by the swiftest advance of freedom ever seen, is an odd time for doubt."'b'Bush has seen the enemy and it is not us. Nor is it only a group of nations (the "axis of evil"). Nor is the prime enemy the tactic of terrorism.'b'The president identified the enemy (and did not euphemize it, as Nixon\'s writers did, as "the adversary") a half-dozen times in this speech. The archenemy of freedom, now as ever, is tyranny.'b'That\'s thinking big, with history in mind. That comes from reading Natan Sharansky, the former Soviet dissident, and sends a message of hope to democrats jailed by despots in places like China, Zimbabwe and Saudi Arabia. Bush embraced "the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world," but added that our active encouragement of reform "is not primarily the task of arms."'b"That was also a reference to Iraq, where the greatest danger to postelection democracy is less from Zarqawi's terrorist murderers than from the legion of Baathists who want to re-impose Saddam's brand of tyranny."b'A metaphorical nitpick: he said our liberation of millions lit "a fire in the minds of men and one day this untamed fire of freedom will reach the darkest corners of our world." I would have replaced "this untamed fire," which could be dangerous, with "the light from this fire," which would have illuminated the "darkest corner." (Once a speechwriter )'b'Evidence that Bush\'s "freedom speech" was tightly edited for time was in his concluding evocation of Philadelphia\'s Liberty Bell. Cut out of a near-final draft was the line on the side of the bell from Leviticus that rings out Bush\'s theme: "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof "'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: safire@nytimes.com'b'Did they believe they would be welcomed as liberators? Administration plans to privatize Social Security have clearly run into unexpected opposition. Even Republicans are balking; Representative Bill Thomas says that the initial Bush plan will soon be a "dead horse."'b'That may be overstating it, but for privatizers the worst is yet to come. If people are rightly skeptical about claims that Social Security faces an imminent crisis, just wait until they start looking closely at the supposed solution.'b"President Bush is like a financial adviser who tells you that at the rate you're going, you won't be able to afford retirement -- but that you shouldn't do anything mundane like trying to save more. Instead, you should take out a huge loan, put the money in a mutual fund run by his friends (with management fees to be determined later) and place your faith in capital gains."b'That, once you cut through all the fine phrases about an "ownership society," is how the Bush privatization plan works. Payroll taxes would be diverted into private accounts, forcing the government to borrow to replace the lost revenue. The government would make up for this borrowing by reducing future benefits; yet workers would supposedly end up better off, in spite of reduced benefits, through the returns on their accounts.'b'The whole scheme ignores the most basic principle of economics: there is no free lunch.'b"There are several ways to explain why this particular lunch isn't free, but the clearest comes from Michael Kinsley, editorial and opinion editor of The Los Angeles Times. He points out that the math of Bush-style privatization works only if you assume both that stocks are a much better investment than government bonds and that somebody out there in the private sector will nonetheless sell those private accounts lots of stocks while buying lots of government bonds."b"So privatizers are in effect asserting that politicians are smart -- they know that stocks are a much better investment than bonds -- while private investors are stupid, and will swap their valuable stocks for much less valuable government bonds. Isn't such an assertion very peculiar coming from people who claim to trust markets?"b'When I ask privatizers that question, I get two responses.'b"One is that the diversion of revenue into private accounts doesn't have to lead to government borrowing, that the money can come from, um, someplace else. Of course, many schemes look good if you assume that they will be subsidized with large sums shipped in from an undisclosed location."b'Alternatively, they point out that stocks on average were a very good investment over the last several decades. But remember the disclaimer that mutual funds are obliged to include in their ads: "past performance is no guarantee of future results."'b"Fifty years ago most people, remembering 1929, were afraid of the stock market. As a result, those who did buy stocks got to buy them cheap: on average, the value of a company's stock was only about 13 times that company's profits. Because stocks were cheap, they yielded high returns in dividends and capital gains."b'But high returns always get competed away, once people know about them: stocks are no longer cheap. Today, the value of a typical company\'s stock is more than 20 times its profits. The more you pay for an asset, the lower the rate of return you can expect to earn. That\'s why even Jeremy Siegel, whose "Stocks for the Long Run" is often cited by those who favor stocks over bonds, has conceded that "returns on stocks over bonds won\'t be as large as in the past."'b"But a very high return on stocks over bonds is essential in privatization schemes; otherwise private accounts created with borrowed money won't earn enough to compensate for their risks. And if we take into account realistic estimates of the fees that mutual funds will charge -- remember, in Britain those fees reduce workers' nest eggs by 20 to 30 percent -- privatization turns into a lose-lose proposition."b'Sometimes I do find myself puzzled: why don\'t privatizers understand that their schemes rest on the peculiar belief that there is a giant free lunch there for the taking? But then I remember what Upton Sinclair wrote: "It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on his not understanding it."'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b'State and federal lawmakers are finally realizing that controlling prison costs means controlling recidivism -- by helping newly released people establish viable lives once they get out of jail. A report just out from a group of 100 policy makers, including elected officials, established by the Council of State Governments argues that the country needs to reinvent its corrections system. In the place of a system that locks people up and shoves them out the door when their sentences are finished, the report, by the Re-Entry Policy Council, envisions "re-entry" services that reintegrate ex-offenders into their communities.'b'This line of thinking is long overdue. The United States has 2.1 million people behind bars on any given day -- nearly seven times the number three decades ago. Corrections costs have risen accordingly -- from about $9 billion a year two decades ago to more than $60 billion a year today -- making corrections the second-fastest-growing expense in state budgets, after Medicaid. The portrait of the inmate population offered in the report leaves no doubt as to why two-thirds of the people who leave prison are rearrested within a few years. These people were marginally employable before they went to jail -- nearly half earned less than $600 a month. A criminal record makes them even less employable afterward. In addition, many of them suffer from mental illnesses that often go untreated after release.'b'The social services necessary for successful re-entry are virtually nonexistent in most communities. The new report offers an exhaustive prescription for changing the status quo: states will need to coax disparate parts of their systems to work together. State officials will also have to re-educate voters, who have grown accustomed to a corrections philosophy that begins and ends with merely locking people up for the longest possible period of time. These policies will need to change, and quickly, if the states are to solve the recidivism problem and develop programs that help former inmates find homes, training, jobs and places in their communities. Until that happens, corrections costs will continue to soar, siphoning off billions of dollars that could be used for more constructive purposes.'b'It is so easy to sit back in the affluence of our comfortable lives, protected from scourges like malaria and extreme poverty and hunger, and nitpick to death the United Nations\' landmark action plan to eradicate poverty and hunger and the plagues they spawn. Indeed, no sooner had the long-awaited report, bearing the stamp of the Columbia University economist Jeffrey Sachs, hit the street this week than some economists took shots. "Utopian central planning by global bureaucrats," carped one.'b"There is certainly much to debate about the details of Mr. Sachs's report, which calls for rich countries like the United States to drastically increase foreign aid to poor countries in an effort to halve poverty in its many forms -- hunger, illiteracy, disease -- by 2015. But this is not a time for armchair quarterbacking. The United Nations report is a bold initiative that refuses to accept hunger as the inevitable fate of so many Africans, Latin Americans and Asians. There will be and should be a debate about it as world leaders prepare to meet in September on the antipoverty goals, but it is vital that it not turn into another excuse for inaction."b"Mr. Sachs's report lays out, in real terms, the myriad ways to help poor people. The beauty of his ideas is in their simplicity: Provide mosquito nets for children who live in malaria-infested regions. Eliminate school and uniform fees to ensure that poor children don't stay home because they can't afford to go to school. Provide farmers in sub-Saharan Africa with soil nutrients to ensure healthier crops. Reform and enforce legislation guaranteeing women and girls property and inheritance rights."b'None of this is rocket science, although many will try to make it seem so. The strongest, and probably most legitimate, critique of approaches that flood poor countries with money is that many of these poor countries are run by corrupt governments that will stash most of the donor money in private Swiss bank accounts. That has certainly proved true in the past, particularly in Africa, where the poor have stayed poor while a succession of despots have run country after country into the ground.'b'But it is counterproductive to make poor people suffer because they have bad governments. Mr. Sachs says now is the time to try the radically different approach of giving bigger amounts of real, quality aid directly to recipients on the ground. That means money to clinics and schools, to build generators and buy medicine and food, instead of the usual low-interest loans to benefit companies back home.'b'The United Nations proposal calls for rich countries to increase their foreign aid to 0.7 percent of G.D.P. by 2015. That\'s a target that these very same rich countries, flush with good will at the start of the new millennium, set for themselves. In 2002, world leaders, including President Bush, supported a declaration promising to "make concrete efforts" toward the 0.7 percent target.'b"Three years later, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and Luxembourg are already there. The United States remains far behind, at 15 hundredths of 1 percent. So, let's get started, America. The world is waiting."b"A few weeks ago, leaders in the New York State Assembly actually took a baby step toward reform, making legislators actually vote in person and requiring the Rules Committee to do its work in public. Now it's time for state senators to let a little fresh air into their gilded chamber."b"The Senate would never admit it has been inspired or embarrassed by the lower chamber, but over the last two weeks the Republican majority has been consulting with the minority Democrats on the rules issue -- an event as rare as sunlight in Albany's gloomy State Capitol. A vote on the Senate's rules for 2005 is now scheduled for Monday. The Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, and his Republican colleagues could one-up the Assembly by going further toward power-sharing and openness. Obviously, at minimum they should take the great leap and require senators to be physically present to vote on legislation."b'Senate rule makers should also make it easier for minority legislators to put their names on a bill and get those bills to the floor. They should strengthen committees and expand the power and frequency of conference committees. Then the legislators could actually take responsibility for creating compromises between Senate and Assembly bills, instead of leaving it all to end-of-the-year deal-making among the leaders.'b"The new rules might make life a little more complicated for legislators who have grown too comfortable with the old ways. But no matter how ragged and unappetizing the process of making laws can be, the public ought to be able to see it. If the Legislature's business is not in the open, voters have to wonder what lawmakers have been doing that they should be ashamed of."b'Fixing Albany: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/albany.'b"CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - SINCE 9/11, President Bush and his advisers have engaged in a series of arguments concerning the relation between freedom, tyranny and terrorism. The president's inaugural paean to freedom was the culmination of these arguments."b"The stratagem began immediately after 9/11 with the president's claims that the terrorist attacks were a deliberate assault on America's freedom. The next stage of the argument came after no weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq, thus eliminating the reason for the war, and it took the form of a bogus syllogism: all terrorists are tyrants who hate freedom. Saddam Hussein is a tyrant who hates freedom. Therefore Saddam Hussein is a terrorist whose downfall was a victory in the war against terrorism."b'When this bogus syllogism began to lose public appeal, it was shored up with another flawed argument that was repeated during the campaign: tyranny breeds terrorism. Freedom is opposed to tyranny. Therefore the promotion of freedom is the best means of fighting terrorism.'b'Promoting freedom, of course, is a noble and highly desirable pursuit. If America were to make the global diffusion of freedom a central pillar of its foreign policy, it would be cause for joy. The way the present administration has gone about this task, however, is likely to have the opposite effect. Moreover, what the president means by freedom may get lost in translation to the rest of the world.'b"The administration's notion of freedom has been especially convenient, and its promotion of it especially cynical. In the first place, there is no evidence to support, and no good reason to believe, that Al Qaeda's attack on America was primarily motivated by a hatred of freedom. Osama bin Laden is clearly no lover of freedom, but this is an irrelevance. The attack on America was motivated by religious and cultural fanaticism."b"Second, while it may be implicitly true that all terrorists are tyrants, it does not follow that all tyrants are terrorists. The United States, of all nations, should know this. Over the past century it has supported a succession of tyrannical states with murderous records of oppression against their own people, none of which were terrorist states -- Argentina and Brazil under military rule, Augusto Pinochet's Chile, South Africa under apartheid, to list but a few. Today, one of America's closest allies in the fight against tyranny is tyrannical Pakistan, and one of its biggest trading partners is the authoritarian Communist regime of China."b'Third, while the goal of promoting democracy is laudable, there is no evidence that free states are less likely to breed terrorists. Sadly, the very freedoms guaranteed under the rule of law are likely to shelter terrorists, especially within states making the transition from authoritarian to democratic rule. Transitional democratic states, like Russia today, are more violent than the authoritarian ones they replaced.'b'And even advanced democratic regimes have been known to breed terrorists, the best example being the United States itself. For more than half a century a terrorist organization, the Ku Klux Klan, flourished in this country. According to the F.B.I., three of every four terrorist acts in the United States from 1980 to 2000 were committed by Americans.'b'The president speaks eloquently and no doubt sincerely of freedom both abroad and at home. But it is plain for the world to see that there is a discrepancy between his words and his actions.'b'He claims that freedom must be chosen and defended by citizens, yet his administration is in the process of imposing democracy at the point of a gun in Iraq. At home, he seeks to "make our society more prosperous and just and equal," yet during his first term there has been a great redistribution of income from working people to the wealthy as well as declining real income and job security for many Americans. Furthermore, he has presided over the erosion of civil liberties stemming from the Patriot Act.'b"Is this pure hypocrisy -- or is there another explanation for the discrepancy, and for Mr. Bush's perplexing sincerity? There is no gainsaying an element of hypocrisy here. But it is perhaps no greater than usual in speeches of this nature. The problem is that what the president means by freedom, and what the world hears when he says it, are not the same."b'In the 20th century two versions of freedom emerged in America. The modern liberal version emphasizes civil liberties, political participation and social justice. It is the version formally extolled by the federal government, debated by philosophers and taught in schools; it still informs the American judicial system. And it is the version most treasured by foreigners who struggle for freedom in their own countries.'b'But most ordinary Americans view freedom in quite different terms. In their minds, freedom has been radically privatized. Its most striking feature is what is left out: politics, civic participation and the celebration of traditional rights, for instance. Freedom is largely a personal matter having to do with relations with others and success in the world.'b"Freedom, in this conception, means doing what one wants and getting one's way. It is measured in terms of one's independence and autonomy, on the one hand, and one's influence and power, on the other. It is experienced most powerfully in mobility -- both socioeconomic and geographic."b'In many ways this is the triumph of the classic 19th-century version of freedom, the version that philosophers and historians preached but society never quite achieved. This 19th-century freedom must now coexist with the more modern version of freedom. It does so by acknowledging the latter but not necessarily including it.'b'It is not that Americans have rejected the formal model of freedom -- ask any American if he believes in democracy and a free press and he will genuinely endorse both. Rather it is that such abstract notions of freedom are far removed from their notion of what freedom means and how it is experienced.'b'The genius of President Bush is that he has acquired an exquisite grasp of this development in American political culture, and he can play both versions of freedom to his advantage. Because he so easily empathizes with the ordinary American\'s privatized view of freedom, the president was relatively immune from criticism that he disregarded more traditional measures of freedom like civil liberties. In the privatized conception of freedom that he and his followers share, the abuses of the Patriot Act play little or no part. (There are times, of course, when the president must voice support for the modern liberal version of freedom. The inaugural is such a day, "prescribed by law and marked by ceremony," as he ruefully noted.)'b"Yet while these inconsistencies may not bother the president's followers or harm his standing in America, they matter to the rest of the world. Few foreigners are even aware of America's hybrid conception of freedom, much less accepting of it. In most of the rest of the world, the president's inaugural address was heard merely as hypocrisy."b'Op-Ed Contributor Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard, is the author of "Freedom in the Making of Western Culture" and a forthcoming book on the meaning of freedom in the United States.'b'Gov. Robert Ehrlich of Maryland has pushed the public interest aside by promulgating an extraordinary ban forbidding tens of thousands of state employees from talking to two Baltimore Sun journalists whose coverage has displeased him. The gag order is a sweeping attempt to cut the two -- the statehouse bureau chief and a columnist -- from the flow of information vital to democracy. It is no surprise that The Sun has felt obliged to go to court to defend the journalists and accuse the governor of violating the First Amendment right of free speech.'b"No less does Mr. Ehrlich's order abuse state workers' rights by attempting to choke off information from them to taxpayers who need to know more about their government than the claims of the governor's press releases. We hope enough state workers are insulted by the lock-step edict to indulge even more their right to get truth out to the people."b'Beyond citing minor errors across months of coverage, Mr. Ehrlich has not documented his blanket charges that the newspaper is fabricating both quotations and context in its stories. The governor\'s anger seems more rooted in The Sun\'s uncovering an attempt to sell state preservation lands to a developer, as well as the fact that its editorial page did not endorse him. It is not enough for Mr. Ehrlich to note that other Sun reporters are not being ostracized even as he seeks what he candidly calls a "chilling effect" on the two he has blacklisted.'b"It may seem good short-run politics to supporters of Mr. Ehrlich, a conservative Republican, to campaign against The Sun as elitist and biased. But in the long run, the governor, who faces re-election next year, is attacking a newspaper with a century-plus record of credibility. Cooler heads should prevail in settling the standoff short of the courthouse. Until then, Mr. Ehrlich's order stands as an embarrassing display of hubris."b"JERICHO, West Bank - Two weeks ago, Shrook Ziad, a 17-year-old Palestinian student, showed up at the polling place here in this ancient Biblical city to watch her fellow Palestinians vote in Sunday's elections."b'Miss Ziad couldn\'t vote herself -- she\'s too young -- and she wasn\'t sure she would even if she could. Sitting on a cement barrier in the middle of her school\'s courtyard, she surveyed her surroundings with disgust. "The teachers here are no good," she said. "The Palestinian Authority is no good. The martyrs are no good. The economy is no good."'b"Traveling around the deeply scarred occupied territories here, where gunmen roam freely and posters of suicide bombers, made up like rock stars, adorn the walls, it's hard to get away from the feeling that this is a place with no room for you unless you are an extremist."b'Miss Ziad and her cadre of four young girlfriends, each one more cynical than the next, say their biggest concerns are whether they will be able to finish school and get jobs. They want what most teenagers want: to go to the movies. They dream of one day going to Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, for a shopping trip.'b'But "it doesn\'t seem like there\'s somewhere for us here," she says.'b'Indeed not. On both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian divide, the people in the middle are hostages to the ones on the extreme ends.'b"It's the same thing on the other side of the Green Line, from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv. The Israeli government is going out of its way to coddle the ultra-right-wingers, who have vowed all manner of madness if Prime Minister Ariel Sharon goes ahead with what most rational people agree is something that Israel has to do: disengage from the bedlam that is Gaza, where some one million Palestinians dwarf a handful of Jewish settlements, engaging the Israeli Army daily with landmines, handmade rockets and suicide bombers."b'The reality is that if Israel hopes to remain a Jewish state, then it must bow to demographics and get out of Gaza and the West Bank, where the Palestinian population far outpaces the Jewish population.'b'Mr. Sharon has been fighting mightily in the Israeli Parliament, or Knesset, to hold together a majority government that will stick for the estimated seven to eight months it will take to disengage from Gaza. Last week he achieved his goal by the skin of his teeth. But disengagement foes have continued to demonstrate and the news media remain filled with their outrage.'b'Such anti-disengagement extremists, one Israeli Army general warned last week, are "more dangerous than any flying rocket" lobbed by militant Palestinians in Gaza. But the government is loath to crack down on them -- one Israeli official said the issue is too "emotional" -- even when these settlers refuse to leave illegal settlements.'b'Instead, Israeli soldiers stand guard outside these settlements to protect them from Palestinian attacks, at the risk of their own lives. Israeli soldiers are routinely killed while patrolling the settlements.'b"So the extremists control the show, on both sides of the Green Line. Since assuming the presidency of the Palestinian Authority last week, Mahmoud Abbas has been devoting all of his time to trying to coax, cajole and threaten members of Hamas into laying down their arms and suicide bombs long enough for Mr. Abbas to get Mr. Sharon back to the table. But Hamas isn't even willing to stop the killing long enough to let Israel pull out of Gaza, something Hamas allegedly wants."b'So the people in the middle continue to pay the price. Last month, Israeli defense forces say, they spotted Hamas gunmen in a strawberry field in Gaza assembling a rocket to launch at Israeli targets. But by the time Israel tanks fired a single shell, hitting the field, the Hamas gunmen were gone, and in their place were 13 young boys, most from the same family, playing marbles. Seven were killed; their parents had to pick body parts from the bushes and trees.'b'Israeli officials estimate that probably 70 percent of Jews here want Israel to disengage from the occupied territories. Palestinian officials say they don\'t know the number of Palestinians who want Hamas and other gunmen and suicide bombers to stop attacking Israelis, but some 62 percent of Palestinians voted for Mr. Abbas, the closest thing the Palestinians have to a pragmatic leader, who has said terror attacks are "useless" and should be stopped.'b'No one here believes the violence will end any time soon. The people at the extremes will keep yelling and lobbing rockets. And the people in the middle, from the boys in the berry fields to the Israeli soldiers on guard duty to Shrook Ziad, will continue to be the real martyrs.'b'CARLISLE, Mass. - THE Federal Bureau of Investigation has officially entered what computer professionals call "software hell." After spending $170 million to create a program that would give agents ready access to information on suspected terrorists, the bureau admitted last week that it\'s not even close to having a working system. In fact, it may have to start from scratch.'b'Shocking? Not at all. A look at the private sector reveals that software debacles are routine. And the more ambitious the project, the higher the odds of disappointment. It may not be much consolation to taxpayers, but the F.B.I. has a lot of company. Software hell is a very crowded place.'b"Consider Ford Motor Company's ambitious effort to write new software for buying supplies. Begun in 2000, the goal of the project, code-named Everest, was to replace Ford's patchwork of internal purchasing systems with a uniform system that would run over the Internet. The new software was supposed to reduce paperwork, speed orders and slash costs. But the effort sank under its own complexity. When it was rolled out for testing in North America, suppliers rebelled; according to Automotive News, many found the new software to be slower and more cumbersome than the programs it was intended to replace. Last August, Ford abandoned Everest amid reports that the project was as much as $200 million over budget."b"A McDonald's program called Innovate was even more ambitious -- and expensive. Started in 1999 with a budget of $1 billion, the network sought to automate pretty much the entire fast-food empire. Software systems would collect information from every restaurant -- the number of burgers sold, the speed of customer service, even the temperature of the oil in the French fry vats -- and deliver it in a neat bundle to the company's executives, who would be able to adjust operations moment by moment."b"Or so it was promised. Despite the grand goals, the project went nowhere. In late 2002, McDonald's killed it, writing off the $170 million that had already been spent."b'Research by the Standish Group, a software research and consulting firm, illustrates the troubled fates of most big software initiatives. In 1994, researchers found, only 16 percent were completed on time, on budget and fulfilling the original specifications. Nearly a third were canceled outright, and the remainder fell short of their objectives. More than half of the cost overruns amounted to at least 50 percent of the original budget. Of the projects that went off schedule, almost half took more than twice as long as originally planned. A follow-up survey in 2003, however, showed that corporate software projects were doing better; researchers found that the percentage of successful projects had risen to 34 percent.'b'What happened between 1994 and 2003? The Internet boom went bust. Stung by wasted investments in complicated software systems, business executives began taking a more skeptical view of such projects. They scaled back their expectations, pursuing more modest software enhancements with narrower goals -- and far higher chances of success.'b'Equally important, they stopped trying to be creative. Rather than try to customize their software, they began looking for cheaper, off-the-shelf programs that would get the job done with a minimum of fuss. When necessary, they changed their own procedures to fit the available software. Old, generic technology may not be glamorous, but it has an important advantage: it works.'b"It may well turn out that the F.B.I.'s biggest problem was its desire to be innovative -- to build a new wheel rather than use an old one within easy reach. When it comes to developing software today, innovation should be a last resort, not a first instinct."b'Op-Ed Contributor Nicholas G. Carr is the author of "Does IT Matter? Information Technology and the Corrosion of Competitive Advantage."'b'POIPET, Cambodia - After I purchased Srey Mom from her brothel for $203 a year ago and brought her back to her village, the joy was overwhelming. Her parents and siblings had assumed she was dead, and they shrieked and hugged and cried.'b'I had doubts about the other sex slave I had purchased, Srey Neth, whom I wrote about on Wednesday -- and who in fact is thriving and is now preparing to become a hairdresser. But I was pretty sure that Srey Mom would make it.'b"So I'm devastated to say that a year later, I found Srey Mom back here in the wild town of Poipet, in her old brothel. She's devastated, too -- when she spotted me, she ran away to her room in the back of the brothel until she could compose herself."b'"I never lie to people, but I lied to you," she said forlornly. "I said I would not come back, and I did. I didn\'t want to return, but I did."'b'Yet, sadly, such an experience is common. Aid groups find it unnerving that they liberate teenagers from the bleak back rooms of a brothel, take them to a nice shelter -- and then at night the kids sometimes climb over the walls and run back to the brothel.'b'It would be a tidier world if slaves always sought freedom. But prostitutes often are shattered and stigmatized, and sometimes they feel that the only place they can hold their head high is in the brothel.'b'Srey Mom, too, has zero self-esteem, but in her case no one in her village knew her background, and she was clear of debts. The central problem, as best I can piece together the situation, is that she was addicted to methamphetamines, and that craving destroyed her will power, sending her fleeing back to the brothel so that she could get her drugs.'b'Over the last year, an aid group looking after Srey Mom, American Assistance for Cambodia, gave her several more chances, once bringing her to Phnom Penh to enroll in school to become a hair dresser. But each time, Srey Mom fled back to drugs and the brothel.'b'"Ninety-five percent of the girls take drugs," Srey Mom told me. Some girls inject morphine, but brothel owners worry that needle holes make girls look unsightly, so methamphetamine pills are most common.'b'Some brothel owners welcome addiction, because it makes the girls dependent upon them. But Srey Mom said that is not true of her brothel owner, Heok Tem, whom she calls "Mother."'b'"Mother doesn\'t want us to use drugs," Srey Mom said. She has an eerily close relationship with Mrs. Heok Tem, and these days that emotional bond keeps her in the brothel as much as do her debts. Mrs. Heok Tem seems to feel genuine affection for Srey Mom and truly helped in the effort to get Srey Mom to start a new life, but she also cheats Srey Mom ruthlessly -- I examined the brothel\'s account books -- and rakes in cash by pimping the girl, which exposes her to AIDS.'b'"It\'s wrong," Mrs. Heok Tem admitted. But for now, she says, she needs the money.'b'Srey Mom still says her dream is to start life over in her village. "I want to go away," she said. "I don\'t want to stay here long. I\'m not happy here. I will just look after my younger sisters. I\'m already bad, and I don\'t want them to become bad like me."'b"I don't believe it will ever happen. I hate to write anyone off, but I'm afraid that Srey Mom will remain in the brothel until she is dying of AIDS (36 percent of girls in local brothels have H.I.V., and eventually it catches up with almost all of them). I finally dared tell her my fear. I described some young women I had just seen, gaunt and groaning, dying of AIDS in Poipet, and I told her I feared she would end up the same way."b'"I\'m afraid of that, too," she replied, her voice breaking. "This is an unhappy life. I don\'t want to do this."'b"Maybe that's what I find saddest about Srey Mom: She is a wonderful, good-hearted girl who gives money to beggars, who offers Buddhist prayers for redemption -- but who is already so broken that she seems unable to escape a world that she hates and knows is killing her."b'President Bush declared in his inaugural address this week that "no one deserves to be a slave" and that advancing freedom is "the calling of our time." I can\'t think of a better place to start than the hundreds of thousands of girls trafficked each year, for this 21st-century version of slavery has not only grown in recent years but is also especially diabolical -- it poisons its victims, like Srey Mom, so that eventually chains are often redundant.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b"If you want to understand America, I hope you were in Washington on Thursday. I hope you heard the high ideals of President Bush's inaugural address, and also saw the stretch Hummer limos heading to the balls in the evening."b'I hope you heard the president talk about freedom as "the permanent hope of mankind, the hunger in dark places, the longing of the soul," and also saw the drunken, loud and privileged twentysomethings carrying each other piggyback down K Street after midnight.'b'What you saw in Washington that day is what you see in America so often -- this weird intermingling of high ideals with gross materialism, the lofty and the vulgar cheek to cheek.'b'The people who detest America take a look at this odd conjunction and assume the materialistic America is the real America; the ideals are a sham. The real America, they insist, is the money-grubbing, resource-wasting, TV-drenched, unreflective bimbo of the earth. The high-toned language, the anti-Americans say, is just a cover for the quest for oil, or the desire for riches, dominion and war.'b"But of course they've got it exactly backward. It's the ideals that are real."b"Two years from now, no one will remember the spending or the ostrich-skin cowboy boots. But Bush's speech, which is being derided for its vagueness and its supposed detachment from the concrete realities, will still be practical and present in the world, yielding consequences every day."b"With that speech, President Bush's foreign policy doctrine transcended the war on terror. He laid down a standard against which everything he and his successors do will be judged."b'When he goes to China, he will not be able to ignore the political prisoners there, because he called them the future leaders of their free nation. When he meets with dictators around the world, as in this flawed world he must, he will not be able to have warm relations with them, because he said no relations with tyrants can be successful.'b'His words will be thrown back at him and at future presidents. American diplomats have been sent a strong message. Political reform will always be on the table. Liberation and democratization will be the ghost present at every international meeting. Vladimir Putin will never again be the possessor of that fine soul; he will be the menace to democracy and rule of law.'b"Because of that speech, it will be harder for the U.S. government to do what we did to Latin Americans for so many decades -- support strongmen to rule over them because they happened to be our strongmen. It will be harder to frustrate the dreams of a captive people, the way in the early 1990's we tried to frustrate the independence dreams of Ukraine."b'It will be harder for future diplomats to sit on couches flattering dictators, the way we used to flatter Hafez al-Assad of Syria decade after decade. From now on, the borders established by any peace process will be less important than the character of the regimes in that process.'b'The speech does not command us to go off on a global crusade, instantaneously pushing democracy on one and all. The president vowed merely to "encourage reform." He insisted that people must choose freedom for themselves. The pace of progress will vary from nation to nation.'b"The speech does not mean that Bush will always live up to his standard. But the bias in American foreign policy will shift away from stability and toward reform. It will be harder to cozy up to Arab dictators because they can supposedly help us in the war on terror. It will be clearer that those dictators are not the antidotes to terror; they're the disease."b"Bush's inaugural ideals will also be real in the way they motivate our troops in Iraq. Military Times magazine asked its readers if they think the war in Iraq is worth it. Over 60 percent -- and two-thirds of Iraq combat vets -- said it was. While many back home have lost faith, our troops fight because their efforts are aligned with the core ideals of this country, articulated by Jefferson, Walt Whitman, Lincoln, F.D.R., Truman, J.F.K., Reagan and now Bush."b'Americans are, as George Santayana observed, "idealists working on matter." On Thursday in Washington, the ideal and the material were on ample display. And we\'re reminded once again that this country has grown rich, powerful and effective not because its citizens are smarter or better, but because the ideals bequeathed by the founders are practical and true.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b'"Who lives in a pineapple under the sea?"'b'"SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS!"'b'"Absorbent and yellow and porous is he "'b'. . .not to mention dopey and charming and more hugely overexposed than ever, thanks to an anti-homosexual attack from the Christian right. Because of a media fuss ignited by the American Family Association and Dr. James Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family, this cartoon character is well on his way to culture-war immortality, up there with those moral saboteurs Murphy Brown and Tinky Winky.'b'It\'s not that Dr. Dobson has a problem with Mr. SquarePants per se. He is angry, rather, about a video made for grade schools by the We Are Family Foundation that features SpongeBob and other TV characters. It doesn\'t mention sex. But the foundation\'s Web site says this: "I pledge to have respect for people whose abilities, beliefs, culture, race, sexual identity or other characteristics are different from my own." How could anyone be against that?'b'Dr. Dobson is. He has denounced the video as a bait-and-switch, one that uses cartoons to legitimize a group that will corrupt children with a homosexual agenda.'b'We find it strange, actually, that the intolerant Dr. Dobson has not taken aim at SpongeBob himself, who is naughty and rude enough to give many parents pause. After "The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie" came out, a Christian family Web site made a long list of worrisome bits, including "cartoon rear male nudity, repeatedly," "pinching of banner staff between nude buttocks" and "suggestion of sadomasochism in transvestitism."'b"As any weary parent knows, America's children spend billions of hours watching movies and shows like that, absorbing underwear jokes, flatulence gags and mushy messages of tolerance until their brains run out their ears."b'There may be a threat in all that, but Dr. Dobson and his allies seem to have missed it entirely.'b"Paris \xe2\x80\x94 There's only one thing you can say about the elections in Iraq: They are either going to be the end of the beginning there or the beginning of the end."b'Either Iraqis turn out in large numbers to take control of their own future and write their own constitution - and I think they will - or the fascist insurgents there prevent them from doing so, in which case the Bush team will have to move to Plan B. What\'s sad is that right when we have reached crunch time in Iraq, the West is totally divided. All that the Europeans care about is being able to say to George Bush, "We told you so." What happens the morning after "We told you so" ? Well, the Europeans don\'t have a Plan B either.'b"Ever since 9/11, I've argued the war on terrorism is really a war of ideas within the Muslim world - a war between those who want to wall Islam off from modernity, and defend it with a suicide cult, and those who want to bring Islam into the 21st century and preserve it as a compassionate faith. This war of ideas is not one that the West can fight, only promote. Muslims have to fight it from within. That is what is at stake in the Iraqi elections. This is the first great battle in the post-9/11 war of ideas."b'This war also can\'t be won with troops - only with turnout. This is a war between Iraqi voters and insurgents - ballots versus bullets. And the people who understand that best are the fascist insurgents. That is why they are not focusing their attacks on U.S. troops, but on Iraqi election workers, candidates, local officials and police. The insurgents have one credo: "Iraqis must not vote - there must be no authentic expression of the people\'s will for a modern, decent Iraq. Because, if there is, the world will see that this is not a war between Muslims and infidel occupiers, but between Muslims with bad ideas and Muslims with progressive ideas."'b'And at this key juncture the West stands disunited. Condi Rice told the Senate that the "time for diplomacy is now." Give me a break. The time for diplomacy was two years ago. We would be so much better off now if the entire European Union was actively urging Iraqis to vote, and using its own moral legitimacy in the Arab world to delegitimize the insurgents. The divided West is a real liability.'b'"The most important threat [to the West] is Islamic terrorism," said Bernard Kouchner, the founder of Doctors Without Borders, and one of the few French intellectuals to support the ouster of Saddam. This is not a war with the Muslim religion, he stressed, but with a violent "fascist" Muslim minority. "We [in the West] have always been allied against fascism since the Second World War," he said. "We have to be together, America and Europe, because our enemies are the same, Muslim extremism and fascism," but right now, unlike in Bosnia, "we are apart."'b"Mr. Kouchner blames Paris for having been too quick to threaten a U.N. veto and blames even more the Bush team for having been too quick to go to war without a real U.N. alliance, and for mismanaging  postwar Iraq. At least he cares. Most of his countrymen, I sense, are hoping Mr. Bush will fail in Iraq so that the ends will never justify his unilateral means. It's quite amazing, when you consider that Europe, with its large Muslim minorities, needs the moderates to win the war of ideas within Islam so much more than America."b'I spent Friday morning interviewing two 18-year-old French Muslim girls in the Paris immigrant district of St.-Ouen. (It is about a mile from the school where in March 2003 a French Muslim girl, who had refused the veil and rebuffed the advances of a Muslim boy, was thrown into a garbage can by three Muslim teenagers, who then tossed lighted cigarette butts into the can and closed the lid.)'b'Both girls I interviewed wore veils and one also wore a full Afghan-like head-to-toe covering; one was of Egyptian parents, the other of Tunisian parents, but both were born and raised in France. What did I learn from them? That they got all their news from Al Jazeera TV, because they did not believe French TV, that the person they admired most in the world was Osama bin Laden, because he was defending Islam, that suicide "martyrdom" was justified because there was no greater glory than dying in defense of Islam, that they saw themselves as Muslims first and French citizens last, and that all their friends felt pretty much the same.'b'We were not in Kabul. We were standing outside their French public high school - a short ride from the Eiffel Tower.'b'I should have known.'b"I can't believe I thought he was just an innocent little sponge wearing tight shorts."b"What in the name of Davy Jones's locker would a sponge be doing holding hands with a starfish or donning purple and hot-pink flowered garb to redecorate the Krusty Krab if he weren't a perverted invertebrate?"b'Before this is over, we\'re going to find out that SpongeBob is the illicit spawn of the Tampa shock jock Bubba the Love Sponge. Who knew SpongeBob would become as fraught as the cover of "Abbey Road"?'b"It took Dr. James Dobson, the conservative Christian leader and gay marriage opponent, who claims the president's re-election was more a mandate for his ideas than George Bush's, to point out the insidious underside of the popular cartoon character SpongeBob SquarePants. It takes a sponge to brainwash a child."b'Holy Abe! Dr. Dobson outed SpongeBob at a black-tie inaugural fete last week for members of Congress and political allies. He said that a "pro-homosexual video" -- starring SpongeBob, Barney, Jimmy Neutron, Winnie the Pooh, Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy -- was set to go to elementary schools to promote a "tolerance pledge," including tolerance for differences of "sexual identity."'b"Hoppin' clams, as they say in Bikini Bottom, the den of epicene iniquity where SpongeBob lives. Nothing good can come of tolerance."b'Dan Martinsen, a spokesman for Nickelodeon, where SpongeBob beats the pants off the competition, was flummoxed: "It\'s a sponge, for crying out loud. He has no sexuality."'b"Dr. Dobson has done the country a service by reminding us to watch out for the dark side of lovable but malleable sponges. He inspired me to fish through the president's Inaugural Address with a more skeptical eye."b'Mr. Bush\'s epic pledge to support democratic movements and institutions in every nation and to end "tyranny in our world" may seem wildly pie-in-the-sky, given that the Iraq vortex has drained our military.'b'Although his incendiary speech about "the untamed fire of freedom" has been widely interpreted as a code-red warning to both foes and friends, I wonder if the president knew he was literally promising to stamp out undemocratic governments across the globe, which would include some of our top allies. He probably thought it was a fancier way of repackaging the Iraq invasion, not as a failed search for W.M.D., but as a blow for freedom (a word used 27 times) and liberty (used 15 times).'b"I wonder if W. is surprised that people took it literally. The Bushes don't always understand that they're being held to their rhetoric in major speeches. (Read my warships.) For such a brass-knuckled vision, the president's delivery was curiously unemotional."b"Some of the same advisers who filled Mr. Bush's brain with sugary visions of a quick and painless Iraq makeover did mean the speech to be literal; they are drawing up military options for the rest of the Middle East. Once again, the lovable and malleable president seems to be soaking up the martial mind-set of those around him, almost like a sponge."b'SpongeBush SquarePants!'b'We can only hope that Dr. Dobson doesn\'t pick up on the resemblance. SpongeBob, as his song goes, "lives in a pineapple under the sea/absorbent and yellow and porous is he!" SpongeBush lives in a bubble in D.C./absorbent and shallow and porous is he!'b"SpongeBush ensnared the country in a whale of a mess in Iraq because he guilelessly absorbed the neocons' dire warnings about Saddam's weapons capabilities and their rosy assumptions about Ahmad Chalabi's leadership capabilities."b'Dick Cheney is a gruff Mr. Krabs taskmaster to SpongeBush, but SpongeBush is crazy about him anyhow. W. trustingly let his vice president make the worst-case scenario about Iraq a first-case scenario.'b"Mr. Bush might have thought he was just blowing pretty bubbles full of lofty ideals about freedom and liberty in his speech, but Mr. Cheney and the neocons seem intent on filleting Iran and Syria. (Doesn't Richard Perle remind you of the snarky and pretentious next-door neighbor to SpongeBob, Squidward Tentacles?)"b'The vice president told Don Imus that Iran was "right at the top of the list" of trouble spots, and that Israel "might well decide to act first" with a military strike.'b"Even if he's a little light in the flippers, SpongeBob has brought children good, clean fun. SpongeBush has brought the world dark, endless fights."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b"MY sense is that it has never been easy to be an 11-year-old girl, but the world seems to be offering them especially dispiriting messages these days. My daughter just turned 11, and her self-image is fine. At least I think it is. The mind of an 11-year-old girl will always be a Byzantine place to a balding, middle-aged guy. In any event, my 11-year-old is not oblivious to the reality that much of the news media is far more interested in whether a possible role model like Lindsay Lohan has breast implants than whether she can act. And I don't know if Mary-Kate Olsen got more ink last year for her eating disorder than for her and her sister's latest film, but my sense is she did."b'Lately, however, in a relatively small corner of the entertainment world, I am seeing a delightful rebellion by the tweens themselves against the way they are being given the message in movies and on television that you must be hot and sexy and troubled to make it. That corner is Broadway, and it is small only in relation to the clout of the circulation of People magazine or the ratings of a television drama like "The O.C." There is really nothing small about a majestic theater like the Gershwin.'b'Right now three Broadway shows are packing in the tweens and telling them in a way that only a musical can that it\'s O.K. to be a tomboy or fat or even green; just be true to yourself and don\'t let anyone stifle your dream. The shows are "Little Women," "Hairspray" and "Wicked." The timing of their arrival is coincidence, but their success seems to rest partly on the shoulders of girls (and their parents) who are responding to a different message from the one sent by the glossy magazines, with their fixation on sex, drugs and eating disorders.'b'The musical "Little Women," which opens officially today, has been in full-production previews since early December. When my wife, my daughter and I saw it the week after Christmas, it seemed as if every other person in the audience had come straight to the theater from the American Girl store a few blocks away.'b'The musical is a faithful adaptation of Louisa May Alcott\'s 1868 novel about the four March girls, particularly Alcott\'s fictional stand-in, Jo, the clumsy young proto-feminist who wants to be a writer. At the end of the musical\'s first act, Jo stands alone center stage and belts out what will certainly become the show\'s signature number, "Astonishing." The song is a powerful cry of self-affirmation in which Jo tells herself that she is going to be, pure and simple, the very best.'b'The tweens around us were on their feet clapping. My daughter noticed instantly the song\'s parallel to "Defying Gravity," the number that ends the first act of "Wicked," the musical adaptation of Gregory Maguire\'s best-selling novel about the witches of Oz. This song is sung by Elphaba, the witch who has been all but discarded by her family and ostracized by her schoolmates because her skin is green, as she soars with her broom to the top of the proscenium arch and tells the world determinedly that henceforth no one is ever going to bring her down.'b"It's a moment the tweens (and their dads) love, and perhaps the moment that helped catapult the actress who created the role of Elphaba, Idina Menzel, into the hearts of wannabe teenage divas everywhere. When Ms. Menzel finished her glorious flight in the skies high above Oz earlier this month, there were girls camped out by the Gershwin the night before her final performance to say good-bye."b'And, finally, there is "Hairspray," the musical based on the John Waters movie about a group of teenagers who bring integration to the Baltimore music scene of the early 1960\'s. Who leads the charge? The plump girl with the obese mom in the housecoat, Tracy Turnblad. A girl who proves to the world both that she can dance and that she has a perfectly honed moral compass. Who was in line the other night to see it? Lots of tweens and their parents.'b"Jo March has always been a great role model for our young girls, and I am thrilled to see her now joining Elphaba and Tracy. I only wish Broadway were both less expensive and more accessible so that our tweens could see as much of a witch with green skin as they do of Lindsay Lohan's cleavage."b'Op-Ed Contributor Chris Bohjalian is the author, most recently, of "Before You Know Kindness," a novel.'b'At a time when the self-appointed guardians of family values have been denouncing television programming for everything from wardrobe malfunctions to SpongeBob\'s squishiness on gay tolerance, it\'s interesting that "American Idol" seems to be getting a pass. Fox\'s hugely popular search for the next singing sensation started its fourth season last week with a series of vicious encounters between hopeful but pathetically untalented young people and celebrity judges being paid to make fun of them. While the contests do not feature bare breasts or four-letter words, they send a truly dreadful message to millions of young viewers about the proper way to treat fellow human beings.'b'The high points of the early episodes of the show are the moments in which desperately clueless singers deliver unbearable versions of pop standards in front of judges who either burst into derisive laughter or helpfully advise the would-be idols that they are way too fat, badly dressed, funny looking or simply "honestly, excruciatingly awful." While some of the contestants have the sort of impenetrable self-obsession that seems to invite that kind of treatment, others react in ways that make it clear they are simply weak and vulnerable. The producers seem to feel it\'s funny to watch a trio of wealthy and famous adults making fun of a simple 16-year-old girl whose only sin was being "pretty sure I have a good voice" when she didn\'t.'b'About 100,000 contestants, all in their teens or 20\'s, auditioned for "American Idol," and the ones who wound up on national television survived at least two elimination rounds. While Fox said the survivors were chosen to be a good cross section, it is hard to imagine that any of the extremely na\xc3\xafve contestants understood that they were being moved along only because they showed promise for being ridiculous. In the ensuing battle for the "tickets to Hollywood," the viewers are invited to roar while young people who in many cases appear to be poor, of low intelligence or even mildly disturbed, sing enthusiastically and then stand gape-mouthed with shock while their heroes insult them on national television.'b'One of the points of any reality show is to allow the audience to watch as contestants humiliate themselves by screeching at their spouses on a race around the world, by being voted off the island first, or by failing to get a rose from the bachelor or bachelorette whom they have been desperately and publicly wooing. But there is a very wide gap between demonstrating that life is full of hard knocks and embarrassment, and glorying in the abasement of the utterly defenseless.   Editorial'b'It has been 60 years since the rise of Levittown, and Long Island is still as segregated as an Eisenhower-era TV dinner: white turkey slices and mashed potatoes in the big compartments, green peas and fruit cup in the corners, shiny aluminum keeping everything in its place.'b"The entrenched racial divisions in our subdivisions are not an accident or act of God. Whites-only deed restrictions and exclusionary zoning rules helped to lay the boundary lines; inertia and human nature have done the rest. The era of overtly discriminatory housing policies may be over, but the unbearable whiteness of certain Long Island communities -- and the brownness of others -- attest to the stubborn endurance of Long Island's original sin. The system is reinforced today by real estate agents who act as self-appointed guardians of the status quo -- a sort of Nimby early-warning system for all supposed threats to property values, school test scores, racial homogeneity and other benchmarks of suburban status."b"At a news conference last week, Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, made the depressing but unsurprising charge that racial steering persists on Long Island, which academics and advocacy groups have called the most segregated suburban area in America. Lawsuits by Acorn against four local real estate companies charge that black and Hispanic people who asked about renting apartments in white neighborhoods like Garden City were ignored, lied to or urged to go away. According to Acorn, white applicants who called or visited these companies -- Garden City Properties and Anne Hagen's Village Realty in Garden City, Jimco Century 21 in Glen Cove and Bosco Realty in Franklin Square -- enjoyed all the courtesies accorded potential customers, while black and Hispanic applicants were frequently told that apartments were unavailable or that they should look somewhere else."b"It is hardly surprising that some real estate companies would choose not to fight Long Island's system of functional apartheid but would try to use it to their advantage. Like car salesmen, real estate agents scramble to make a living selling expensive products to wary customers who routinely hire outside specialists to test the veracity of the sales pitches. But the fact that they live in a high-pressure world does not relieve them of their obligation to obey the law, which is clear on matters of fair housing and civil rights."b"The accusations raised by Acorn, the result of more than a year of effort done in the best tradition of grass-roots advocacy, deserve thorough investigation by state licensing officials, the Division of Human Rights and the attorney general's office."b'London - HYPOTHESIS: males and females are typically indistinguishable on the basis of their behaviors and intellectual abilities.'b'This is not true for elephants. Females have big vocabularies and hang out in herds; males tend to live in solitary splendor, and insofar as they speak at all, their conversation appears mostly to consist of elephant for "I\'m in the mood, I\'m in the mood"'b"The hypothesis is not true for zebra finches. Males sing elaborate songs. Females can't sing at all. A zebra finch opera would have to have males in all the singing roles."b"And it's not true for green spoon worms. This animal, which lives on the sea floor, has one of the largest known size differences between male and female: the male is 200,000 times smaller. He spends his whole life in her reproductive tract, fertilizing eggs by regurgitating sperm through his mouth. He's so different from his mate that when he was first discovered by science, he was not recognized as being a green spoon worm; instead, he was thought to be a parasite."b'Is it ridiculous to suppose that the hypothesis might not be true for humans either?'b'No. But it is not fashionable -- as Lawrence Summers, president of Harvard University, discovered when he suggested this month that greater intrinsic ability might be one reason that men are overrepresented at the top levels of fields involving math, science and engineering.'b"There are -- as the maladroit Mr. Summers should have known -- good reasons it's not fashionable. Beliefs that men are intrinsically better at this or that have repeatedly led to discrimination and prejudice, and then they've been proved to be nonsense. Women were thought not to be world-class musicians. But when American symphony orchestras introduced blind auditions in the 1970's -- the musician plays behind a screen so that his or her gender is invisible to those listening -- the number of women offered jobs in professional orchestras increased."b"Similarly, in science, studies of the ways that grant applications are evaluated have shown that women are more likely to get financing when those reading the applications do not know the sex of the applicant. In other words, there's still plenty of work to do to level the playing field; there's no reason to suppose there's something inevitable about the status quo."b"All the same, it seems a shame if we can't even voice the question. Sex differences are fascinating -- and entirely unlike the other biological differences that distinguish other groups of living things (like populations and species). Sex differences never arise in isolation, with females evolving on a mountaintop, say, and males evolving in a cave. Instead, most genes -- and in some species, all genes -- spend equal time in each sex. Many sex differences are not, therefore, the result of his having one gene while she has another. Rather, they are attributable to the way particular genes behave when they find themselves in him instead of her."b"The magnificent difference between male and female green spoon worms, for example, has nothing to do with their having different genes: each green spoon worm larva could go either way. Which sex it becomes depends on whether it meets a female during its first three weeks of life. If it meets a female, it becomes male and prepares to regurgitate; if it doesn't, it becomes female and settles into a crack on the sea floor."b"What's more, the fact that most genes occur in both males and females can generate interesting sexual tensions. In male fruit flies, for instance, variants of genes that confer particular success -- which on Mother Nature's abacus is the number of descendants you have -- tend to be detrimental when they occur in females, and vice versa. Worse: the bigger the advantage in one sex, the more detrimental those genes are in the other. This means that, at least for fruit flies, the same genes that make a male a Don Juan would also turn a female into a wallflower; conversely, the genes that make a female a knockout babe would produce a clumsy fellow with the sex appeal of a cake tin."b'But why do sex differences appear at all? They appear when the secret of success differs for males and females: the more divergent the paths to success, the more extreme the physiological differences. Peacocks have huge tails and strut about because peahens prefer males with big tails. Bull elephant seals grow to five times the mass of females because big males are better at monopolizing the beaches where the females haul out to have sex and give birth.'b'Meanwhile, the crow-like jackdaw has (as far as we can tell) no obvious sex differences and appears to lead a life of devoted monogamy. Here, what works for him also seems to work for her, though the female is more likely to sit on the eggs. So by studying the differences -- and similarities -- among men and women, we can potentially learn about the forces that have shaped us in the past.'b"And I think the news is good. We're not like green spoon worms or elephant seals, with males and females so different that aspiring to an egalitarian society would be ludicrous. And though we may not be jackdaws either -- men and women tend to look different, though even here there's overlap -- it's obvious that where there are intellectual differences, they are so slight they cannot be prejudged."b'The interesting questions are, is there an average intrinsic difference? And how extensive is the variation? I would love to know if the averages are the same but the underlying variation is different -- with members of one sex tending to be either superb or dreadful at particular sorts of thinking while members of the other are pretty good but rarely exceptional.'b"Curiously, such a result could arise even if the forces shaping men and women have been identical. In some animals -- humans and fruit flies come to mind -- males have an X chromosome and a Y chromosome while females have two X's. In females, then, extreme effects of genes on one X chromosome can be offset by the genes on the other. But in males, there's no hiding your X. In birds and butterflies, though, it's the other way around: females have a Z chromosome and a W chromosome, and males snooze along with two Z's."b"The science of sex differences, even in fruit flies and toads, is a ferociously complex subject. It's also famously fraught, given its malignant history. In fact, there was a time not so long ago when I would have balked at the whole enterprise: the idea there might be intrinsic cognitive differences between men and women was one I found insulting. But science is a great persuader. The jackdaws and spoon worms have forced me to change my mind. Now I'm keen to know what sets men and women apart -- and no longer afraid of what we may find."b'Op-Ed Contributor Olivia Judson, an evolutionary biologist at Imperial College in London, is the author of "Dr. Tatiana\'s Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex."'b'The county executive, Steve Levy, created an uproar last fall with a plan to protect the people of Suffolk from illegal alien fugitives. It involved turning county police officers into Justice Department deputies and authorizing them to enforce federal immigration laws. The idea, hatched by the Bush administration for the war on terrorism, was a stretch for Suffolk County, whose undocumented immigrants tend to mow lawns, blow leaves, work hard and keep their heads down.'b'Mr. Levy said that new police powers were the only way to keep violent aliens from jumping bail. But advocates for immigrants called it a useless tactic that would cause a vulnerable population of peaceable Latinos to fear the police.'b'Mr. Levy was steadfast for a while. Then he tinkered with the plan, suggesting at various points that the deputies should be parole officers, or that county employes get access to federal databases. None of that happened.'b"Mr. Levy's latest solution is the simplest and most obvious. He received assurances from the federal authorities that Suffolk police could call them any time. If a problem arises, the feds will help handle it, 24 hours a day."b"Mr. Levy's critics insist that this is no big deal. Mr. Levy insists that it is."b"Whatever. We're glad it has been put to rest."b"Whenever we hear the words Hudson River and PCB's, our ears perk up and our hearts prepare to sink."b"Like most of those who have been eagerly awaiting the day when the river's lingering chemical stain is finally erased, we are accustomed to bad news. It is discouraging enough that tons of General Electric pollutants have soiled the riverbed for decades, poisoning fish and threatening people. They should have been dredged up years ago, but lawsuits, squabbles, bureaucratic complications and procedural difficulties have delayed the cleanup again and again. The Environmental Protection Agency, with G.E. footing the bill, currently plans to start work next summer -- assuming that nothing else happens to further postpone what will be one of the largest industrial cleanups in American history."b"Our latest shudder came from news reports that researchers at the State University at Albany had found disproportionately high rates of respiratory disease among people living along the Hudson River. The suggestion that breathing PCB's could make you sick is both new and alarming -- the main established threat has long been to people who risk cancer by eating tainted fish, and to wildlife in and on the river."b"Besides the new way of thinking about health hazards, we worried that the study, published in the journal Environmental Toxicology and Pharmacology, could somehow lend credence to G.E.'s long-discredited argument that removing the tainted mud would be riskier than leaving it alone. The E.P.A. will have a hard enough time dredging up millions of cubic yards of mud and sediment, processing it, drying it and taking it away. Doing so amid new concerns about airborne PCB's could add a frustrating layer of complications and delays to an already daunting project."b'Thankfully, a few factors argue for staying calm, at least for now.'b'First, it is far too soon to conclude that this one study proves anything. Its authors used ZIP codes for their population samples along the Hudson and in other "clean" areas, a tactic they acknowledge "is a very crude way to assess exposure, since ZIP codes are large and irregular in shape."'b'"The most serious limitation of these studies is the exposure assessment," they write. An E.P.A. official who examined the study agreed, saying that using it to finger PCB\'s as the sole cause of Hudson-area residents\' respiratory problems is going from Point A to Point G.'b"The official, George Pavlou, said the E.P.A. was well aware that small quantities of PCB's, oily yellow insulating chemicals, could escape into the air through dredging, but he said the amounts would be minute -- far too small to pose a health risk. He added that the agency had employed stringent, peer-reviewed research to develop dredging procedures that are effective and safe -- far safer than letting the PCB's sit in the mud."b'This is not to discount the concerns raised by the SUNY study. A group of New York State Assembly members have written to the state health commissioner, Antonia C. Novello, urging an investigation. "The health risks uncovered by this study are a call to action," said Assemblyman Adam Bradley. He is right. We urge the state to examine the risks of airborne PCB\'s to respiratory health.'b'If such a link is ever found, we hope we can take comfort in knowing that the solution -- dredging the river -- is already well under way.'b'In many places on Long Island, the demographics are so entrenched they seem embedded in the local geology -- like lush Garden City, the very definition of a wealthy white enclave of single-family homes, and its racially diverse, working-class neighbor Hempstead.'b'This is why we so regret the impending sale by Nassau County of a property it owns in Garden City. It is a rare opportunity to upset the status quo -- an opportunity for integration that has been missed.'b"The building, which houses the Social Services Department, is one of several decaying government properties that the county executive, Thomas Suozzi, wants to sell to help put the county's finances in order. It is a large, prime parcel, easily worth tens of millions of dollars."b"To make the sale go through, Mr. Suozzi needed Garden City's approval to rezone the lot to residential use. He made his case at a series of public meetings -- and ran smack into the Nimby beast."b'Many villagers seemed terrified that residential zoning would mean "affordable housing" and that affordable housing, in turn, would attract people like those next door in Hempstead. Minutes of meetings show that speakers insistently sought assurances that any new housing would be "upscale" and in keeping with the "character" of their hamlet.'b'Mr. Suozzi has spoken often and urgently about the shortage of housing in the county that working-class people, young married couples and the elderly can afford. He could have insisted on inclusionary zoning -- requiring that any sale of the social services building stipulate that some percentage of housing units built there be sold at below-market prices. He could have made the case, as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once did, that injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere, and that in cramped, heavily developed Nassau, any opportunity for affordable housing units is one to jump at.'b'He chose not to.'b'"We\'re absolutely not interested in building affordable housing there," Mr. Suozzi assured Garden City residents at a public hearing last Feb. 5. "There is a great need for affordable housing, but Garden City is not the location for it."'b'Mr. Suozzi, who has made a career of opposing the status quo, stood up for segregation as usual in Garden City. Nassau County is a poorer place for it.'b'Washington - FORTY-SIX years ago, in "The Two Cultures," C.P. Snow famously warned of the dangers when communication breaks down between the sciences and the humanities. The reaction to remarks by Lawrence Summers, the president of Harvard, about the differences between men and women was yet another sign of a breakdown that takes Snow\'s worries to a new level: the wholesale denial that certain bodies of scientific knowledge exist.'b"Mr. Summers's comments, at a supposedly off-the-record gathering, were mild. He offered, as an interesting though unproved possibility, that innate sex differences might explain why so few women are on science and engineering faculties, and he told a story about how nature seemed to trump nurture in his own daughter."b"To judge from the subsequent furor, one might conclude that Mr. Summers was advancing a radical idea backed only by personal anecdotes and a fringe of cranks. In truth, it's the other way around. If you were to query all the scholars who deal professionally with data about the cognitive repertoires of men and women, all but a fringe would accept that the sexes are different, and that genes are clearly implicated."b'How our genetic makeup is implicated remains largely unknown, but our geneticists and neuroscientists are doing a great deal of work to unravel the story. When David C. Geary\'s landmark book "Male, Female: The Evolution of Human Sex Differences" was published in 1998, the bibliography of technical articles ran to 52 pages -- and that was seven years ago. Hundreds if not thousands of articles have been published since.'b'This scholarship shows a notable imbalance, however: scholarship on the environmental sources of male-female differences tends to be stale (wade through a recent assessment of 172 studies of gender differences in parenting involving 28,000 children, and you will discover that two-thirds of the boys were discouraged from playing with dolls -- but were nurtured pretty much the same as girls in every other way); but scholarship about innate male-female differences has the vibrancy and excitement of an important new field gaining momentum. A recent notable example is "The Essential Difference," published in 2003 by Simon Baron-Cohen of Cambridge University, which presents a grand unified theory of male and female cognition that may well be a historic breakthrough.'b'"Exciting" is the right word for this work, not "threatening" or "scary." We may not know the answers yet, but we can be confident that they will be more interesting than, say, a discrete gene for science that clicks on for men differently than it does for women. Rather, it will be a story of the interaction of many male and female genetic differences, and the way a person\'s environment affects those differences. Hardly any of the answers will lend themselves to simplistic verdicts of "males are better" or vice versa. For every time there is such a finding favoring males, there will be another favoring females.'b"Some people will find the results threatening -- because some people find any group differences threatening -- but such fears will be misplaced. We may find that innate differences give men, as a group, an edge over women, as a group, in producing, say, terrific mathematicians. But knowing that fact about the group difference will not change another fact: that some women are terrific mathematicians. The proportions of men and women mathematicians may never be equal, but who cares? What's important is that all women with the potential to become terrific mathematicians have full opportunity to do so."b"Of course, new knowledge will not be without costs. Perhaps knowing that there is a group difference will discourage some women from even trying to become mathematicians or engineers or circus clowns. We -- scientists, parents, educators, employers -- must do everything we can to prevent such unwarranted reactions. And the best way to do that is to put the individual's abilities, not group membership, at the center of our attention."b'Against the cost of the new knowledge is the far greater cost of obliviousness, which can lead us to pursue policies that try to make society conform to expectations that conflict with what human beings really are. In the study of gender, large and growing bodies of good science are helping us understand the sources of human abilities and limitations. It is time to accept their existence, their seriousness and their legitimacy.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Charles Murray is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.'b'It was probably wishful thinking to expect Gov. George Pataki to help the city out of its fiscal crisis. Facing his own multibillion-dollar budget hole, the governor pretty much stiffed the city on education and transportation and provided limited relief on Medicaid. All that is tough news for Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who now must find new and probably painful ways to close a budget gap of some $2 billion, even as he asks voters for a second term.'b'The shortfall in school aid was particularly galling. A court-appointed panel recommended increasing the budget by an extra $1.4 billion in each of the next four years to give city schoolchildren a sound basic education. Few believed that the state could produce all the money, but surely Mr. Pataki could have done better than the $280 million he offered. He proposes to raise much of the money through video lottery terminals, another name for slot machines.'b"That is too little, and too lame. Worse, it sends the wrong message just when a state judge is considering how to address the underfinancing of education. Indeed, it's not unthinkable that the schools could be made wards of the court -- an utter abdication of duty for elected officials who always claim such deep concern for education."b'The outlook for public transportation is better, but not by much. The governor has at least slowed, without actually killing, projects like the Second Avenue subway, the Grand Central rail connector and the Lower Manhattan connection to Kennedy Airport. This makes sense, as we have noted before, at a time when the state is unable to maintain the system it now has.'b"But even on this crucial matter, the governor falls short, offering less money than the Metropolitan Transportation Authority needs for regular maintenance and upgrades. As with many of the budget's whacks, such short-term savings could result in long-term damage to the economy and to the quality of life for commuters and straphangers in the metropolitan area."b"While everyone agrees that Medicaid's out-of-control costs need to be contained, the governor's approach was a reminder that there are no easy answers to one of the thorniest problems confronting both the state and the city. He proposed savings of $1 billion statewide, including $400 million in savings for the city. But half of that would be negated by associated costs to nursing homes and city-owned hospitals. With other localities howling for Medicaid help, the mayor must fight hard for a better deal."b"The governor did not ignore the city's need for new revenues, but some of his priorities are skewed. He would raise some $200 million a year by extending the tax on clothing costing up to $110, which would hurt both low-income families and the retailers who try to compete with New Jersey outlets for their business. Meanwhile, he would hasten the process of removing the surcharge on the personal income tax for most New Yorkers making more than $100,000. When it comes to reducing taxes, the first beneficiaries should be the people most in need."b"A budget proposal is only an opening salvo that awaits a return volley from legislators. But this is shaping up as a year when Mr. Bloomberg won't be able to count on one-shot windfalls or bailouts, as happened when the state was ordered last year to take on the city's $500 million annual obligations from its 1970's debt. The mayor could always forgo his proposed $400 rebate on property taxes for homeowners. But nothing would help as much as more help from Albany."b'One of the main talking points in the administration\'s drive to privatize Social Security is that retirees have nothing to fear. "If you\'re a senior receiving your Social Security check, nothing is going to change," President Bush said recently. Mr. Bush seems to presume that older Americans are indifferent to the future retirement security of their children and grandchildren. But even taken on its face, the argument does not hold up.'b"The president promises that under a private retirement scheme, anyone age 55 or older would continue to receive full Social Security benefits. What he repeatedly fails to mention is that privatization would require some $2 trillion in new borrowing over the next 10 years and an additional $4.5 trillion in the decade thereafter. That's on top of the trillions that need to be found to cover the costs of Medicare and Medicaid and -- if the president gets his way -- to make this decade's tax cuts permanent. It's foolhardy to assume that the government could continue to meet all of its obligations, including the payment of Social Security benefits, under such a mountain of debt."b"All told, by 2030, when today's 55-year-olds turn 80, the national debt would be as big as the economy itself, according to a calculation by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities that uses data from Social Security and the Congressional Budget Office. To compare, consider that in the last 50 years, national debt has equaled only 38 percent of the economy on average, and that percentage includes the tremendous overhang of debt from World War II."b'Large and virtually permanent fiscal imbalances could create severe hardship. At the least, big and ongoing deficits erode living standards because they reduce the money available for investment in the economy. At worst, enormous and endless deficits could provoke a loss of investor confidence, leading to higher interest rates and inflation, lower stock and bond prices, less household wealth, less government spending and slower economic growth.'b"If Congress faced that kind of crisis, it's safe to assume that everything would be on the table, including Social Security retirement benefits. This would be especially true if such a crisis were provoked by privatization. The reason: diverting a portion of payroll taxes into private accounts -- the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's privatization scheme -- would greatly accelerate the exhaustion of the Social Security trust fund, unless the government made huge transfusions of other tax revenue into the fund. It could be difficult to justify such transfers if the economy were in dire straits. A dwindling trust fund, in turn, could create a political dynamic for benefit cuts that would be hard to resist."b"Even if Congress managed to keep the commitment to continued funding of full Social Security benefits for today's retirement-age population, senior citizens could find that their other sources of retirement income, especially stocks and bonds, had taken a hit. Their adult children would probably not be able to provide a safety net. Indeed, a country in fiscal crisis is one in which adults are more likely to turn to their elderly parents for help."b"Despite the risks to their own economic well-being in retirement, some older Americans might be willing to support Social Security privatization if it would ensure a stable retirement for their children and grandchildren. But it wouldn't. Privatization would require potentially debilitating borrowing up front, in exchange for a drastically reduced benefit later on, no matter how well, or poorly, private accounts performed. So there's no reason for senior citizens to support it and plenty of reasons to oppose it. Mr. Bush is wily, and wrong, when he tries to dismiss older Americans from the debate."b"In the files of Communist Poland's secret police, now opening to researchers and victims, there appears the code name Nowak, an informer from the Solidarity underground. According to the Institute of National Remembrance, the custodian of the files, Nowak was Malgorzata Niezabitowska, a Solidarity journalist who later became famous as the spokeswoman for Poland's first democratic government. Ms. Niezabitowska says the files are forgeries, that she was interrogated by the secret police once, and never met with them voluntarily."b"This will not be Poland's last argument over who was a collaborator; as the archives are released, more names will surface. So far, the files have been treated carefully. But Poland will have to continue struggling to balance between fairness for those the archives unjustly accuse and the openness that's necessary to encourage debate about what constitutes true collaboration and how Communism managed to induce it in so many people. Simply publishing the names of everyone who had ever been listed as a collaborator -- the strategy espoused by some right-wing politicians who want to manipulate the files for political ends -- would be a disaster."b'Poland needs only to look to the Czech Republic for a lesson in doing this the wrong way. There, after Communism fell, people holding important government jobs were checked by the Interior Ministry against an index of secret police officers, collaborators and candidates for collaboration. The screeners did not read the files to look for actual evidence of guilt; those named lost their jobs. Versions of the lists leaked to the press, and despite being widely denounced as inaccurate, they were treated as gospel by many Czechs. This process slandered thousands of innocent people and perpetuated the Communist mentality of the enemies list. The policy has been softened, but its essence remains.'b'Among the accused was none other than Vaclav Havel. We know the details of his case only because he happened to be president of the Czech Republic when his file was opened. In it, he was named as a candidate for collaboration. According to the file, on June 23, 1965, one secret police captain Cinka went to the apartment of one dissident absurdist playwright Havel. Cinka wrote in the file: "The interview with Havel was concluded with our suggestion that in case of need we will contact him again. He agreed and said that he himself was glad he had talked to us, as it was an inspiration for further literary endeavors." On the basis of that, Cinka evaluated Havel as suitable for recruitment and recommended maintaining contact.'b'Evidently Cinka had no further success. Six months later, Mr. Havel was moved from the category of Candidate to that of Enemy, and there he stayed, piling up prison terms for the next 24 years. He included a house call from the secret police in his play "Notification."'b'In Poland, by contrast with the Czech Republic, the files are controlled by a nonpolitical organization. Government officials cannot be fired for being collaborators. Instead, high officials must state whether they informed, and can be fired only if a special court determines they are now lying. These courts can also declare that an individual was a collaborator who did harm, but only after a long investigation. The court releases a detailed public explanation.'b'With individual consideration of each case, Poles can find out if an alleged informer signed an agreement and received a salary. They can know if someone agreed to collaborate because he was being blackmailed, or to end a long jail term, understandable if not admirable choices. The public can see what kind of information the agent provided.'b'Even open files, however, can hide the truth. In most places, secret police officials had quotas to meet. They had great incentive to take information from one agent and put it in the mouths of three or four. One interrogation of a dissident is recast as a series of meetings, and, presto, dissident becomes collaborator. An official could also pocket the money his fictional agents would receive. One enthusiastic Czech official listed 17 informers, only one of whom existed.'b'Throughout the East bloc, many people pressured to inform made their pact with the devil while attempting to say nothing of use. This is not always evident from the files. One woman who was the bookkeeper for Charter 77, the dissident movement in Czechoslovakia, told me she would be named a collaborator if her file was opened. The secret police believed she gave them Charter\'s bank books. In fact, the documents she provided were false. "We are examining this question with no context," she said. "You know a person told the police something. It looks terrible. But I know that it\'s not important. I know what he didn\'t say."'b'Another Czech was pressured to spy on the foreign company he worked for. His boss agreed to feed him harmless information to report. The man still wound up listed as a collaborator in the files, which contain endless variations on this theme.'b'Arseny Roginsky, the founder of Russia\'s largest human rights group, Memorial, told me that the secret police wrote in the files of the Soviet-era poet Anna Akhmatova that she loved Stalin and was writing an ode to him. While she wrote such poems, it was to win her son\'s release from prison. Meanwhile, she had already written, memorized and burned her anti-Stalin masterpiece, "Requiem." The official version "saved her life," said Mr. Roginsky. "Do you want that file opened now?"'b"Yes, you do. The spies were real: hundreds of thousands of people who propped up Communism and ruined peoples' lives. Post-Communist countries must understand this key mechanism of dictatorship. But the files should be illuminated with the fullest context possible, treated not as accurate history but as the product of bureaucracies as flawed as the systems they served."b"Michael Powell, the Federal Communications Commission chairman who rarely met a media merger he didn't like or an off-color broadcast he did, announced last week that he would resign. Mr. Powell's disappointing reign will be remembered for the extremes to which he went to punish what he called indecency, and for his abdication of responsibility for regulating the businesses that came before him. When President Bush appoints a new chairman, he should look for someone who can bring the commission to a more moderate position on both of these issues."b"As chairman of the F.C.C., one of the government's most important regulatory bodies, Mr. Powell should have been an advocate for reasonable regulations that protect consumers and promote competition. Instead, he brought to his position an extreme commitment to deregulation that seemed to serve big business's interests most of all. One high-profile example was his attempt to remove regulations on the Baby Bells that were designed to make local telephone service more competitive. Although Republicans had a majority on the commission, Mr. Powell was unable to get his colleagues to back this particular antiregulatory crusade."b'The other main cause Mr. Powell championed was the commission\'s misguided campaign against on-air indecency. The broadcasts that were targeted have too often been innocuous, such as the singer Bono\'s use of a single expletive after he won a Golden Globe award, and the fines excessive, most notably the $550,000 imposed on Viacom for Janet Jackson\'s "wardrobe malfunction" at last year\'s Super Bowl. Media companies and artists have complained, with good reason, that the commission\'s indecency standards are so vague that they are being discouraged from engaging in constitutionally protected speech.'b"The two people being mentioned most prominently as possible successors to Mr. Powell come with some demerits. Kevin Martin, currently a Republican commissioner, has shown a welcome willingness to break with his party. But he has taken an even more extreme line on indecency than Mr. Powell. Becky Klein, a former chairwoman of the Texas Public Utility Commission, is coming off an unsuccessful run for Congress in which she accepted large contributions from telecommunications companies that seemed to be betting she might end up at the F.C.C. Ms. Klein's record underscores the third important job qualification, along with reasonable positions on media concentration and indecency: a demonstrated record of independence from the industries the F.C.C. regulates."b'The Food and Drug Administration continues to drag its feet on granting women over-the-counter access to the morning-after emergency contraceptive known as Plan B.'b'Under federal guidelines, the agency was supposed to issue a decision by Friday. Instead, the F.D.A. told the manufacturer, Barr Pharmaceuticals, that it was still conducting its review. The agency said it hoped to act soon, but set no specific date for action.'b'Yet, by now, there is no excuse for delay. No one questions that Plan B, which contains a concentrated dose of the progestin hormone found in daily birth control pills, is safe and effective. Moreover, by proposing to limit its availability over the counter to women over 16, Barr has removed as an issue the effect on adolescents, which the agency cited as a concern last May when, bowing to political pressure, it overrode scientific research and the overwhelming recommendation of two expert advisory panels to reject making Plan B available without a prescription to all women, regardless of age.'b"An internal memorandum by Dr. John Jenkins, director of the agency's own Office of New Drugs, suggests that the agency failed to follow proper procedure in making the decision. The memo, which is cited in a new lawsuit challenging the agency's May ruling, notes that drawing a distinction between different age groups is a departure from the agency's usual approach to contraceptive products."b"Making Plan B available over the counter would prevent thousands of unintended pregnancies and thousands of abortions annually. It's time for the F.D.A. to allow women easy access to Plan B."b'"I\'m playing me." That\'s how Johnny Carson once described the difference between himself and Robert Redford. The actor got to vanish into a part, but the host of the "Tonight" show did not -- or so Mr. Carson seemed to be saying. And yet what could be harder than playing oneself?'b'In a way, Johnny Carson, who died Sunday at 79, was as much an apostle of self-invention as anyone who has ever lived in this self-invented country. Night after night he portrayed the version of himself that was defined by the hour and the guests and the cameras -- and by his consciousness of an audience, somewhere out there, that was happy to close its day with his voice and his jokes.'b'Mr. Carson kept up the illusion that he was playing himself all along, even though it was always an illusion. We like to believe that we are very sophisticated viewers nowadays -- thanks to satellite and cable and TiVo and our understanding of the artifices of the medium. But there was something extraordinarily sophisticated -- and we always knew it -- in watching Carson do Carson. It seemed to surprise many people that he could retire as completely as he did after the final broadcast in 1992. But it was surprising only if you believed in the character of the host you saw him playing on the show. He offered just enough of himself to let the audience become comfortable with him. In the end, he shared as much with us as we did with him. He was a performer -- always a performer -- who let us believe that he was our friend, an illusion that audiences cherish. No matter how sophisticated we are, we always love to surrender our defenses and believe what we see.'b"Johnny Carson nearly invented his corner of the business, and, in a certain sense, he also helped reinvent Los Angeles -- or Burbank, at the very least -- for much of middle America. He is said to have welcomed some 22,000 guests onto the show. No matter how relaxed he seemed, there was always a tightness around the eyes, a sense that -- on an off night or with a dull guest -- he might look off into the middle distance. If he had been more candid, more personal, more himself, America would have devoured him quickly. It's a testament to how well he played Johnny Carson that we have not tired of him.   VERLYN KLINKENBORG"b'Alan Greenspan is expected to retire next year. The Bush administration, because of its nature, will have a hard time finding a successor.'b'One Fed chairman famously described his job as being to "take away the punch bowl just when the party gets going." Bond and currency markets want monetary policy in the hands of someone who will say no to politicians. When a country\'s central banker is suspected of having insufficient spine, the result is higher interest rates and a weaker currency.'b"Today it's even more crucial than usual that the Fed chairman have the markets' trust. The United States is running record budget and trade deficits, and the foreigners we depend on to cover those deficits are losing faith. According to yesterday's Financial Times, central banks around the world have already started shifting into euros. If Mr. Greenspan is replaced with someone who looks like a partisan hack, capital will rush to the exits, the dollar will plunge, and interest rates will soar."b"Yet President Bush, as you may have noticed, only appoints yes-men (or yes-women). This is most obvious on the national security front, but it's equally true with regard to economic policy. The current Treasury secretary has no obvious qualifications other than loyalty. The new head of the National Economic Council apparently got the job because he is a Bush classmate and fund-raiser."b'Of course, Mr. Greenspan himself has become a Bush yes-man. The chairman acted as a stern father figure, demanding fiscal rectitude, when Democrats held the White House. But he turned into an indulgent uncle when Mr. Bush took office. First, he urged Congress to cut taxes in order, he said, to prevent an excessively large budget surplus. Then, when surpluses were replaced by huge deficits, he supported a highly irresponsible second round of tax cuts.'b'Nonetheless, Mr. Greenspan retains considerable credibility with the markets. Who else can satisfy both Mr. Bush and foreign investors?'b'For a while, the presumed front-runner to succeed Mr. Greenspan was Martin Feldstein of Harvard. Mr. Feldstein, like Mr. Greenspan, has a reputation built over a long, distinguished career. Also like Mr. Greenspan, he is a former crusader for fiscal responsibility who became an apologist for budget deficits once Mr. Bush took office.'b"I've known Mr. Feldstein a long time, and worked for him at Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers. He used to be a deficit hawk; now, out of what may be sincere conviction but looks from the outside like an effort to demonstrate political loyalty, he endorses tax cuts in the face of large budget gaps and gigantic borrowing to privatize Social Security."b"But it's reportedly not enough, because right-wingers have never forgiven Mr. Feldstein for his finest hour -- the time when, as a member of the Reagan administration, he spoke out against deficits. It's not just vindictiveness on their part: a man who once took a stand on principle while holding office might do so again once ensconced at the Fed."b'Glenn Hubbard of Columbia, who served in the administrations of both Bushes, is also frequently mentioned. He\'s a smart economist, but everything in his policy career suggests that when the party really got going, he would say: "More punch? Yes, sir, whatever you want."'b"The last name one often hears is Ben Bernanke, currently a member of the Fed's Board of Governors. (Before going to the Fed, Mr. Bernanke was chairman of the Princeton economics department, where I'm on the faculty.) If Mr. Bernanke were appointed directly from his current Fed position to the chairmanship, there would be general acclaim. But he may soon move to the Council of Economic Advisers. Why?"b"Surely it's not because this administration, with its disdain for technical expertise in all fields, wants his advice. I hope I'm wrong, but my guess is that what's intended for Mr. Bernanke is a form of hazing: he will be expected to prove his loyalty by defending the indefensible and saying things he knows aren't true."b'That might seem a tolerable price to pay for the Fed chairmanship -- but a year of it might well make Mr. Bernanke damaged goods from the point of view of the markets.'b"It's a dilemma. I don't have any sympathy for the administration's perplexity. But I do wish Mr. Bernanke the best of luck, and hope he knows what he's doing."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b'SAN FRANCISCO - IN so many American cities compared with similar places in Europe, late-night life on the streets is conspicuous by its absence. There are reasonable excuses, I know: it is too hot, too cold, too dangerous, too empty of promising restaurants, and so on.'b'But Americans, I think, tend to eat dinner early and go to bed early. So late-night television has always had some air of ordaining early retirement, wrapping up the day. I think Johnny Carson had a special place in that calming, sedative approach, and one has to note that he was from Iowa and Nebraska, where bedtime may sometimes still be linked to darkness.'b'Mr. Carson was an inescapable American model. His 30 years on "The Tonight Show" amount to about 5,000 hours of screen time, or some 2,500 motion pictures. You can protest that those are just numbers, that Mr. Carson wasn\'t an actor, he had no story to tell, that it\'s not fair to put him in the same class as, say, Cary Grant, Jimmy Stewart or Humphrey Bogart.'b'Yet that misses how far those three stars (and many others), whatever the particular stories they told, were steadily building a kind of world view, an attitude, that might seem amiable, smart and attractive. Movie stars if they last long enough offer us a way of being, of standing, of wearing clothes, of making amusing remarks, of looking modestly in charge.'b'As soon as I put it that way, I think you can see the point of Johnny Carson -- that aplomb with which he stood; that slow burn of incipient amazement with which he greeted any edgy or off-color event, while telling Iowa and Nebraska that it was O.K., because Johnny had it in hand; that sweet, shy gesture of a golf swing that carried the camera toward Doc Severinsen and the rowdy band.'b'Mr. Carson was a great movie star, no matter that his single movie appearance was fatuous. He was a romantic icon, no matter that the failure of his marriages was a staple line for the barstool worldliness that he could stoop to with Ed McMahon.'b"Still, that was not all. Anything that simple could not have lasted 30 years, or left us feeling so desperate when he stopped. In the end, I don't know who Mr. Carson was or even what he wanted to be. I suspect he had the same difficulties himself."b"That puzzle left a mystery, and that enigma is why the public will watch a man for 30 years or 2,500 movies. So well known, Mr. Carson stayed shy, a touch chilly, tight-lipped. His face, so lovely in a smile, was tough and taut in repose. He had perfected the act of being the terrific guy you'd love to find yourself next to at dinner, but by all accounts in life and its situations he was often numb, helpless, inarticulate."b'I know at least a couple of directors who dreamed that "John" might have been a terrific cold villain in pictures if he\'d ever stepped aside from "Johnny." In "The Shining," if you recall, Stanley Kubrick and Jack Nicholson offered us a Johnny with a mad ax.'b"I do not mean to say that Johnny Carson in truth was unpleasant, or less likable than the screen image. I am only interested in what seems like fact: that the longer he went on, the more secure his mystery was. In that light, I'd guess that Ronald Reagan had spent years studying Mr. Carson's easy persona and finding the little grins and hesitations that could fill in emptiness."b'I loved the man, in part because I watched, waiting to gather stray clues he might leave behind, and because I love looking at moving imagery that draws you deep into a being without ever quite explaining it. He was a master spy, an immaculate secret, someone who knew that being on television long enough might be a very good way of burying your own soul. Public appearance has nothing to do with private insight.'b'He always joked that his epitaph would be "I\'ll be right back," but when he left he went away entirely, even if the shift from Burbank to Malibu was modest. I can believe he did little except sit and smoke and be blank. There was enough sadness and reserve to occupy him.'b"There is another thing that never came back: late-night television for grown-ups. I know, there's Jay and Dave and Conan, and guys on cable, too. We were supposed to get excited a while ago that Conan O'Brien was being groomed for the big one. But no one cares now. We are so tired at the end of the day, or several hours before it. And only a riddle would keep us up. Jay and Dave and the others know this, and they know that they are merely naughty kids compelled to stay awake when the rest of America is sleeping."b'Op-Ed Contributor David Thomson is the author, most recently, of "The Whole Equation: A History of Hollywood."'b'LOS ANGELES - DEAR JOHNNY,'b'This letter comes a little late.'b"I remember seeing the tape of my first appearance on your show, on a home recording, a reel-to-reel Sony prototype video recorder, probably around 1972. What my friends and I ended up watching was not me, but you. It's almost impossible to look away from oneself onscreen, but you made it possible, because there were lessons in what you did. You and Jack Benny taught me about generosity toward other comedians, about the appreciation of the plight of the pro, as valuable as any lessons I ever learned."b"Your gift -- though I'm sure you wouldn't have called it a gift -- was, as I see it, a blend of modesty and confidence. You wanted to do the job and do it well. You allowed the spirit of your idols, Stan Laurel and Jonathan Winters among them, to creep into you, and you found a way to twist their inspiration and make it new. In you I saw simplicity, joy, politeness, sympathy. Your death reminds me of the loss of America's innocence, the distance we have come from your sly, boyish leers to our flagrant, overstated embarrassments for parents and children."b'If I could wake you up for a minute, I would ask you to tell me how good you thought you were. "Between you and me," I think you would whisper, "I know I was great in a subtle, secret way." I think you would also say: "I enjoyed and understood the delights of split-second timing, of watching a comedian squirm and then rescue himself, of the surprises that arise from the fractional seconds of desperation when the comedian senses that the end of his sentence might fall to silence."'b"Your Nebraskan pragmatism -- and knowledge of the magician's tricks -- tilted you toward the sciences, especially astronomy. (Maybe this is why the occultists, future predictors, spoon-benders or mind readers on your show never left without having been challenged.) You knew how to treat everyone, from the pompous actor to the nervous actress, and which to give the appropriate kindness. You enjoyed the unflappable grannies who knitted log-cabin quilts, as well as the Vegas pros who machine-gunned the audience into hysterical fits. You were host to writers, children, intellectuals and nitwits and served them all well, and served the audience by your curiosity and tolerance. You gave each guest the benefit of the doubt, and in this way you exemplified an American ideal: you're nuts but you're welcome here."b"We loved watching baby tigers paw you and koalas relieve themselves on you and seeing you in your swami hat or Tarzan loincloth, and we loved hearing Ed's ripostes and watching you glare at him as though you were going to fire him, but we knew you weren't."b"We, the millions whom you affected, will weep inside when we see the reruns, the clips of you walking out from behind the curtain, the moment in the monologue when a joke bombed; we'll recall your deep appreciation of both genuine and struggling talent."b"Because you retreated into retirement so completely, let me thank you, in death, for the things I couldn't quite say to you in life. Thank you for the opportunity you gave me and others, and thank you -- despite divisive wars and undulating political strife -- for the one hour a night across 30 years of American life when we were entertained purely, delightfully and wisely."b'Op-Ed Contributor Steve Martin is the author of "The Pleasure of My Company."'b"For the city and its Fire Department, both still rebuilding from the attacks of Sept. 11, the deaths this week of three firefighters in two separate blazes seem especially hard to accept. In Brooklyn, one courageous New Yorker died after apparently becoming trapped in a basement while he searched for victims. In the Bronx, a far more puzzling set of circumstances sent six firemen plunging from windows of a tenement's fire-engulfed fourth floor. Two of the men died, but miraculously four survived the fall, although with serious injuries."b"In both cases, the firefighters seem to have believed there were lives to be saved and were following the city's longstanding policy of using aggressive procedures to search for and rescue fire victims. Entering burning buildings is part of the job, of course, but it's complicated in New York. People tend to live vertically, in buildings taller than three stories. And city firefighters routinely search the floors above the fire, a practice that firefighters credit for about half of their rescues. It's hard to argue with that kind of success, but the fatalities in the Bronx fire point to a need to re-examine the protocol for the risks it poses to firefighters, and to make sure they are being kept as low as humanly possible."b'Little seems to have gone right, for example, for the men battling the tenement blaze. The Fire Department says there was a report of trapped people, which proved erroneous. Wall partitions in the apartment, which investigators are looking into, may have cut off access to exits. And one of two fire hoses that should have controlled the blaze in the floor below the victims lost pressure, possibly because of freezing or debris in the line, or even something as simple as a kink in the hose. That allowed the flames to shoot through the floor beneath them, and left the six men no choice but to be burned or jump.'b"The deaths occurred as the city was digging out of more than a foot of snow, and during the season when the risk of fires is highest, often because of dangerous space heaters or other means people in older buildings employ to keep warm. New Yorkers have come to view fire fatalities as uncommon -- fewer than 100 fire deaths occurred last year, the lowest number in eight decades. That is because of better construction; more safety tools, like sprinkler systems and in-home alarms; and better firefighting. While the Fire Department investigates and firefighters prepare heroes' farewells for their comrades, it's right to think about how the sacrifice of these heroes can help make everyone else safer."b'Could the Palestinians finally be figuring out how to get what they want?'b"It's a sign of how low the expectations are for Mideast peace that we wanted to publish this editorial about a possible cease-fire in Gaza as soon as we could, lest the possible cease-fire be broken before we could congratulate those who agreed to it. We hope that the Palestinian militant groups that say they are suspending attacks on Israel for a while actually do so. We hope that suspension takes hold, and leads to a broader, long-term cease-fire, not just in Gaza, but also in the West Bank and Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. And we hope this puts the region back on the road to peace."b'Of course, we hope for much in the Mideast, and both sides, but particularly the Palestinians, are notorious for dashing those hopes. Still, Mahmoud Abbas, the new Palestinian leader, is saying and doing the right things. Unlike his predecessor, Yasir Arafat, Mr. Abbas is cracking down on violence. He has ordered Palestinian security forces to fan out in northern Gaza to prevent militants from firing their homemade rockets and mortars at the Israelis. He has called such attacks "useless," and urged Palestinians to stop their intifada against Israel, which anyone with good sense knows has hurt the Palestinians even more than the Israelis. And Mr. Abbas is now negotiating with groups like Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades. He is apparently closing in on a commitment from Hamas and Islamic Jihad for a monthlong truce. He should be cautious about what he offers in return, especially power sharing in the Palestinian Authority.'b'If this truce does indeed take hold, it will be by far the second smartest thing -- after electing Mr. Abbas as their leader -- that the Palestinians have done in years. Mr. Abbas deserves credit as the only real Palestinian leader who candidly acknowledges what the world has always known. Palestinian violence against Israel is pointless, and has served only to bring forth overwhelmingly punishing responses. From the start of the intifada, back in 2000, Mr. Abbas warned that it was counterproductive, and that years of pointless carnage later, Palestinians would be back at square one, except poorer, more tired, held in lower esteem by the world. In addition, Palestinian violence cost the Palestinians something they dearly need if they will ever get a state they can live with: American support. Without Washington pushing from behind, it is doubtful that the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, will go anywhere near a negotiating table.'b'So here we are, back at square one. But this time, the man at the helm on the Palestinian side is so far making all the right moves. It would be nice to see the Palestinians, after years of shooting themselves in the foot, actually start playing the game like people who expect to win. Mr. Abbas is doing so, and his people would do well to listen to, and then heed, his advice.'b'In his Inaugural Address President Bush embraced the grandest theme of American foreign policy -- the advance of freedom around the world. Now that attention is turning to the State of the Union address, it would be nice if he would devote himself as passionately to the grandest theme of domestic policy -- social mobility.'b'The United States is a country based on the idea that a person\'s birth does not determine his or her destiny. Our favorite stories involve immigrants climbing from obscurity to success. Our amazing work ethic is predicated on the assumption that enterprise and effort lead to ascent. "I hold the value of life is to improve one\'s condition," Lincoln declared.'b'The problem is that in every generation conditions emerge that threaten to close down opportunity and retard social mobility. Each generation has to reopen the pathways to success.'b"Today, for example, we may still believe American society is uniquely dynamic, but we're deceiving ourselves. European societies, which seem more class riven and less open, have just as much social mobility as the United States does."b'And there are some indications that it is becoming harder and harder for people to climb the ladder of success. The Economist magazine gathered much of the recent research on social mobility in America. The magazine concluded that the meritocracy is faltering: "Would-be Horatio Algers are finding it no easier to climb from rags to riches, while the children of the privileged have a greater chance of staying at the top of the social heap."'b"Economists and sociologists do not all agree, but it does seem there is at least slightly less movement across income quintiles than there was a few decades ago. Sons' income levels correlate more closely to those of their fathers. The income levels of brothers also correlate more closely. That suggests that the family you were born into matters more and more to how you will fare in life. That's a problem because we are not supposed to have a hereditary class structure in this country."b"But we're developing one. In the information age, education matters more. In an age in which education matters more, family matters more, because as James Coleman established decades ago, family status shapes educational achievement."b'At the top end of society we have a mass upper-middle class. This is made up of highly educated people who move into highly educated neighborhoods and raise their kids in good schools with the children of other highly educated parents. These kids develop wonderful skills, get into good colleges (the median family income of a Harvard student is now $150,000), then go out and have their own children, who develop the same sorts of wonderful skills and who repeat the cycle all over again.'b'In this way these highly educated elites produce a paradox -- a hereditary meritocratic class.'b'It becomes harder for middle-class kids to compete against members of the hypercharged educated class. Indeed, the middle-class areas become more socially isolated from the highly educated areas.'b'And this is not even to speak of the children who grow up in neighborhoods in which more boys go to jail than college, in which marriage is not the norm before child-rearing, in which homes are often unstable, in which long-range planning is absurd, in which the social skills you need to achieve are not even passed down.'b'In his State of the Union address, President Bush is no doubt going to talk about his vision of an ownership society. But homeownership or pension ownership is only part of a larger story. The larger story is the one Lincoln defined over a century ago, the idea that this nation should provide an open field and a fair chance so that all can compete in the race of life.'b"Today that's again under threat, but this time from barriers that are different than the ones defined by socialists in the industrial age. Now, the upper class doesn't so much oppress the lower class. It just outperforms it generation after generation. Now the crucial inequality is not only finance capital, it's social capital. Now it is silly to make a distinction between economic policy and social policy."b"We can spend all we want on schools. But if families are disrupted, if the social environment is dysfunctional, bigger budgets won't help."b"President Bush spoke grandly and about foreign policy last Thursday, borrowing from Lincoln. Lincoln's other great cause was social mobility. That's worth embracing too."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b"PRINCETON, N.J. - AS Republicans revel in President Bush's inauguration and prepare for his agenda-setting State of the Union address next week, many Democrats would like to consider almost anything but the substance of politics as the reason for their defeat last November. If only John Kerry had been a stronger candidate. If only the message had been framed differently. If only the party's strategists were as tough as the guys on the other side."b'The limits of candidates and campaigns, however, can\'t explain the Democrats\' long-term decline. And while the institutional decay at the party\'s base -- the decline of labor unions and ethnically based party organizations -- has played a role, the people who point to "moral values" may not be far off. Democrats have paid a historic price for their role in the great moral revolutions that during the past half-century have transformed relations between whites and blacks, men and women, gays and straights. And liberal Democrats, in particular, have been inviting political oblivion -- not by advocating the wrong causes, but by letting their political instincts atrophy and relying on the legal system.'b"To be sure, Democrats were right to challenge segregation and racism, support the revolution in women's roles in society, to protect rights to abortion and to back the civil rights of gays. But a party can make only so many enemies before it loses the ability to do anything for the people who depend on it. For decades, many liberals thought they could ignore the elementary demand of politics -- winning elections -- because they could go to court to achieve these goals on constitutional grounds. The great thing about legal victories like Roe v. Wade is that you don't have to compromise with your opponents, or even win over majority opinion. But that is also the trouble. An unreconciled losing side and unconvinced public may eventually change the judges."b'And now we have reached that point. The Republicans, with their party in control of both elected branches -- and looking to create a conservative majority on the Supreme Court that will stand for a generation -- see the opportunity to overthrow policies and constitutional precedents reaching back to the New Deal.'b'That prospect ought to concentrate the liberal mind. Social Security, progressive taxation, affordable health care, the constitutional basis for environmental and labor regulation, separation of church and state -- these issues and more hang in the balance.'b'Under these circumstances, liberal Democrats ought to ask themselves a big question: are they better off as the dominant force in an ideologically pure minority party, or as one of several influences in an ideologically varied party that can win at the polls? The latter, it seems clear, is the better choice.'b"Rebuilding a national political majority will mean distinguishing between positions that contribute to a majority and those that detract from it. As last year's disastrous crusade for gay marriage illustrated, Democrats cannot allow their constituencies to draw them into political terrain that can't be defended at election time. Dissatisfied with compromise legislation on civil unions and partner benefits, gay organizations thought they could get from judges, beginning with those on the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, what the electorate was not yet ready to give. The result: bans on same-sex marriage passing in 11 states and an energized conservative voting base."b'Public support for abortion rights is far greater than for gay marriage, but compromise may be equally imperative -- especially if a reshaped Supreme Court reverses Roe v. Wade by finding that there is no constitutional right to abortion and throws the issue back to the states. Some savvy Democrats are already thinking along these lines, as Hillary Clinton showed this week when she urged liberals to find "common ground" with those who have misgivings about abortion.'b'And if a new Supreme Court overturns affirmative-action laws, Democrats will need to pursue equality in ways that avoid treating whites and blacks differently. Some liberals have long been calling for an emphasis on "race neutral" economic policies to recover support among working-class and middle-income white voters. Legal and political necessity may now drive all Democrats in that direction.'b"Republicans are leaving themselves open to this kind of strategy. Their party is far more ideologically driven and more beholden to the Christian right than it was even during the Ronald Reagan era. This is the source of the party's energy, but also its vulnerability. The Democrats' opportunity lies in becoming a broader, more open and flexible coalition that can occupy the center."b"In the long run, Democrats will benefit from their strength among younger voters and the growing Hispanic population. But the last thing the Democrats need is a revived interest group or identity politics. As the response to Senator Barack Obama's convention speech showed, the party's own members are looking for an expansive statement of American character and national purpose."b'Secure in their own lives at home, Americans can be a great force for good in the world. That is the liberalism this country once heard from Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy -- and it is the only form of liberalism that will give the Democratic Party back its majority.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Paul Starr is the co-editor of The American Prospect and the author, most recently, of "The Creation of the Media."'b'Even as the Bush administration rails about the ballooning costs of entitlement programs, its Medicare officials are planning a big expansion of coverage for implantable devices that can help prevent sudden death from heart failure. The expansion could cost perhaps $3 billion a year and would be the most expensive decision about covering a single technology in the memory of Medicare officials. By statute, Medicare is required to base its coverage decisions only on health benefits, not price tags. The decision provides an excellent example of how medical costs are driven inexorably upward by costly but valuable technologies that save lives.'b"The device is an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. It monitors the heart's rhythm and delivers an electrical shock to interrupt any potentially fatal abnormal rhythm. Medicare has been paying for such implants in some classes of patients for years. Now, based on clinical trial data published last week, it plans to double or triple the pool of eligible patients, to more than 500,000 in all. Although the devices were originally used only for patients who had already suffered cardiac arrest from abnormal rhythms, the expanded pool will receive the devices as a prophylactic measure -- to head off the possibility of sudden death from cardiac arrest."b'Medicare will pay about $30,000 per case. Even though most of the patients who receive them may never have a life-threatening abnormal heart rhythm, the devices are expected to be cost effective by traditional measures for extending lives.'b'In a smart decision, Medicare plans to insist that recipients who want the device agree to have information about their medical experience recorded in a national databank. That will give health officials a better handle on how well the device works in different patients. It may turn out that far fewer patients than expected will benefit from the implant, allowing doctors to provide this technology only to those who need it. But if the device proves a life extender for vast numbers of patients, it will be hard for anyone to tell them the nation cannot afford it.'b'It started with a very cold night and, probably, a homeless person -- one of hundreds hiding in the subway. A fire was lighted somehow and spread, incinerating a small control room. That loss of wires, cables and connections doomed almost 600,000 New Yorkers to various levels of commuter hell for months and possibly years.'b"The New York City Transit obviously has to make repairs fast, while also shoring up other similar control rooms -- there are perhaps a dozen -- throughout the city's antiquated subway system. Obviously, the first estimate of up to five years to fully restore the A and C lines was unacceptable. After a storm of criticism, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and city transit officials shortened that estimate yesterday to six to nine months for restoring service, a vast improvement. But that had better just be the start."b"The subway is also no place for the homeless, and it's a sign of the system's shaky state that hundreds of people have been allowed to live in its grapevine of tunnels and passageways. It is not safe for them and, as Sunday's fire makes clear, it is not safe for the millions who ride through those tunnels every single day. The city's police and homeless outreach programs need to be mobilized right away."b"Infuriated riders who need to vent their anger should understand that neither the station manager nor City Hall is the right target. The buck really stops at Gov. George Pataki's office. He appoints the people who run the M.T.A., and his proposed budget skimps on the kind of maintenance and infrastructure upgrading that could help prevent the disruptions subway riders are seeing this week."b"Mr. Pataki could start getting involved by contacting Lawrence Reuter, president of the New York City Transit, and his team to make sure they work harder to communicate with commuters. Garbled announcements and bad advice from transportation workers have added to riders' frustrations in recent days. If the delays are inevitable, the confusion about how to cope with them is not."b"POIPET, Cambodia - When I describe sex trafficking as, at its worst, a 21st-century version of slavery, I'm sure plenty of readers roll their eyes and assume that's hyperbole."b"It's true that many of the girls who are trafficked around the world go voluntarily or under coercion too modest to be fairly called slavery. But then there are girls like Srey Rath."b"A couple of years ago, at age 15 or 16 (she's unsure of her birth date), Srey Rath decided to go work in Thailand for two months, so that she could give her mother a present for the Cambodian new year."b'But the traffickers who were supposed to get her and four female friends jobs as dishwashers smuggled them instead to Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia. There, three of the girls, including Srey Rath, were locked up in a karaoke lounge that operated as a brothel and ordered to have sex with customers. Srey Rath indignantly resisted.'b'"So the boss got angry and hit me in the face, first with one hand and then with the other," she remembers. "The mark stayed on my face for two weeks."'b'That was the beginning of a hell. The girls were forced to work in the brothel 15 hours a day, seven days a week, and they were never paid or allowed outside. Nor were they allowed to insist that customers use condoms.'b'"They just gave us food to eat, but they didn\'t give us much because the customers didn\'t like fat girls," Srey Rath said.'b'The girls had been warned that if they tried to escape they could be murdered. But they were so desperate that late one night, after they had been locked up in the 10th-floor apartment where they were housed, they pried a strong board off a rack used for drying clothes. Then they balanced the board, which was just five inches wide, from their window to a ledge in the next building, a dozen feet away.'b'Srey Rath and four other girls inched across, 10 floors above the pavement.'b'"We thought that even if we died, it would be better than staying behind," Srey Rath said. "If we stayed, we would die as well." (I talked to another of the Cambodians, Srey Hay, and she confirmed the entire account.)'b"Once on the other side, they took the elevator down and fled to a police station. But the police weren't interested and tried to shoo them away at first -- and then arrested them for illegal immigration. Srey Rath spent a year in a Malaysian prison, and when she was released, a Malaysian policeman drove her away -- and sold her to a taxi driver, who sold her to a Thai policeman, who sold her to a Thai brothel."b"Finally, after two more months, Srey Rath fled again and made it home this time to the embraces of her joyful family. An aid group, American Assistance for Cambodia, stepped in to help Srey Rath, outfitting her with a street cart and an assortment of belts and keychains to sell. That cost only $400, and now she's thrilled to be earning money for her family."b"Over the last five years, the U.S. has begun to combat sex trafficking, with President Bush's State Department taking the lead. But there's so much more that could be done, particularly if the White House became involved. More scolding and shaming of countries with major sex trafficking problems, like Cambodia and Malaysia, would go a long way to get them to clean up their act."b"It's mostly a question of priorities. No politician defends sex trafficking, but until recently no one really opposed it much either. It just wasn't on the agenda. If, say, 100 people in each Congressional district demanded that their representatives push this issue, sex trafficking would end up much higher on our foreign policy agenda -- and the resulting ripple of concern around the globe would emancipate tens of thousands of girls."b'You\'ll understand the stakes if you ever cross the border from Thailand to Cambodia at Poipet: look for a cart with a load of belts. You\'ll see a beaming teenage girl who will try to sell you a souvenir, and you\'ll realize that talk about sex "slavery" is not hyperbole -- and that the shame lies not with the girls but with our own failure to respond as firmly to slavery today as our ancestors did in the 1860\'s.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b'If you\'re going to call a book "The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History," readers will expect some serious carrying on about race, and Thomas Woods Jr. does not disappoint. He fulminates against the Civil Rights Act of 1964, best known for forcing restaurants and bus stations in the Jim Crow South to integrate, and against Brown v. Board of Education. And he offers up some curious views on the Civil War -- or "the War of Northern Aggression," a name he calls "much more accurate."'b'The introduction bills the book as an effort to "set the record straight," but it is actually an attempt to push the record far to the right. More than a history, it is a checklist of arch-conservative talking points. The New Deal public works programs that helped millions survive the Depression were a "disaster," and Social Security "damaged the economy." The Marshall Plan, which lifted up devastated European nations after World War II, was a "failed giveaway program." And the long-discredited theory of "nullification," which held that states could suspend federal laws, "isn\'t as crazy as it sounds."'b'It is tempting to dismiss the book as fringe scholarship, not worth worrying about, but the numbers say otherwise. It is being snapped up on college campuses and, helped along by plugs from Fox News and other conservative media, it recently soared to No. 8 on the New York Times paperback nonfiction best-seller list. It is part of a boomlet in far-right attacks on mainstream history that includes books like Jim Powell\'s "FDR\'s Folly," which argues that Franklin Roosevelt made the Depression worse, and Michelle Malkin\'s "In Defense of Internment," a warm look back on the mass internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.'b'It is not surprising, in the current political climate, that liberal pieties are being challenged, and many of them ought to be. But the latest revisionist histories are disturbing both because they are so extreme -- even Ronald Reagan called the Japanese internment a "grave wrong" and signed a reparations law -- and because they seem intent on distorting the past to promote dangerous policies today. If Social Security contributed to the Depression, it makes sense to get rid of it now. If internment was a good thing in 1942, think what it could do in 2005. And if the 14th Amendment, which guarantees minorities "equal protection of the law," was never properly ratified -- as Mr. Woods argues -- racial discrimination may be constitutional after all.'b'At the start of the "Politically Incorrect Guide to American History," Mr. Woods says he is not trying to offer "a complete overview of American history." That frees him to write a book in which major historical events that do not fit his biases are omitted, in favor of minutiae that do. The book has nothing to say about the Trail of Tears, in which a fifth of the Cherokee population was wiped out, or similar massacres, but cheerfully points out that "by its second decade Harvard College welcomed Indian students."'b'The "Politically Incorrect Guide" is full of dubious assertions, small and large. It makes a perverse, but ideologically loaded, linguistic argument that the American Civil War was not actually a civil war, a point with which dictionaries disagree. More troubling are the book\'s substantive distortions of history, like its claim that the infamous Black Codes, passed by the Southern states after the Civil War, were hardly different from Northern anti-vagrancy laws. The Black Codes -- which were aimed, as the Columbia University historian Eric Foner has noted, at keeping freed slaves\' status as close to slavery as possible -- went well beyond anything in the North.'b"The book reads less like history than a call to action, since so many of its historical arguments track the current political agenda of the far right. It contends that federal courts were never given the power to strike down state laws, a pet cause of states' rights supporters today. And it maintains that the First Amendment applies only to the federal government, and therefore does not prohibit the states from imposing religion on their citizens, a view that Clarence Thomas has suggested in his church-state opinions."b'Most ominously, it makes an elaborate argument that the 14th Amendment was "never constitutionally ratified" because of irregularities in how it was adopted. This, too, is a pet cause of the fringe right, one the Supreme Court has rejected. If it prevailed, it would undo Brown v. Board of Education and many other rulings barring discrimination based on race, religion and sex. But Mr. Woods does not carry his argument to its logical conclusion. If the 14th Amendment was not properly ratified, neither, it would seem, was the 13th, which was adopted under similar circumstances, and slavery should be legal.'b'These revisionist historians have started meeting pockets of resistance from those who believe they are rewriting reality to suit an ideological agenda. A group called Progress for America recently produced an ad that, incredibly, used Franklin Roosevelt\'s picture to support President Bush\'s plan to privatize Social Security. But Progress for America lost the public relations war when James Roosevelt Jr., F.D.R.\'s grandson, announced that his grandfather "would surely oppose the ideas now being promoted by this administration."'b'Then there was the large Christian school in North Carolina that assigned its students a booklet called "Southern Slavery: As It Was." At first, the school argued that the booklet -- which describes slavery as "a relationship based upon mutual affection and confidence" -- simply provided a valuable "Southern perspective." But after North Carolina newspapers reported on its contents, and quoted local pastors expressing their concern, the school quietly withdrew the text last month, apologizing for the "oversight."'b"Alberto Gonzales's nomination as attorney general goes before the Senate at a time when the Republican majority is eager to provide newly elected President Bush with the cabinet of his choice, and the Democrats are leery of exposing their weakened status by taking fruitless stands against the inevitable. None of that is an excuse for giving Mr. Gonzales a pass. The attorney general does not merely head up the Justice Department. He is responsible for ensuring that America is a nation in which justice prevails. Mr. Gonzales's record makes him unqualified to take on this role or to represent the American justice system to the rest of the world. The Senate should reject his nomination."b'The biggest strike against Mr. Gonzales is the now repudiated memo that gave a disturbingly narrow definition of torture, limiting it to physical abuse that produced pain of the kind associated with organ failure or death. Mr. Gonzales\'s attempts to distance himself from the memo have been unconvincing, especially since it turns out he was the one who requested that it be written. Earlier the same year, Mr. Gonzales himself sent President Bush a letter telling him that the war on terror made the Geneva Conventions\' strict limitations on the questioning of enemy prisoners "obsolete."'b"These actions created the legal climate that made possible the horrific mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners being held in Abu Ghraib prison. The Bush administration often talks about its desire to mend fences with the rest of the world, particularly the Muslim world. Making Mr. Gonzales the nation's chief law enforcement officer would set this effort back substantially."b"Other parts of Mr. Gonzales's record are also troubling. As counsel to George Bush when he was governor of Texas, Mr. Gonzales did a shockingly poor job of laying out the legal issues raised by the clemency petitions from prisoners on death row. And questions have been raised about Mr. Gonzales's account of how he got his boss out of jury duty in 1996, which allowed Mr. Bush to avoid stating publicly that he had been convicted of drunken driving."b'Senate Democrats, who are trying to define their role after the setbacks of the 2004 election, should stand on principle and hold out for a more suitable attorney general. Republicans also have reason to oppose this nomination. At the confirmation hearings, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, warned that the administration\'s flawed legal policies and mistreatment of detainees had hurt the country\'s standing and "dramatically undermined" the war on terror. Given the stakes in that war, senators of both parties should want an attorney general who does not come with this nominee\'s substantial shortcomings.'b'With the military death toll mounting in Iraq, Congressional leaders are sheepishly conceding the need to raise the current $12,400 paid as a "death gratuity" -- cash to cover immediate expenses -- to the spouses and children of men and women killed in the course of service. Public awareness of such a token amount for the ultimate sacrifice has been quietly building, prompting Senate Republicans to vow to raise this one-time, tax-free payment to $100,000. This is more in line with some of the lump-sum payments to families of police officers, firefighters and other civilian responders who are killed on the job.'b"The pity is that this issue is being presented in the new Congress in partisan fashion. Democrats also favor the $100,000 proposal, and bipartisan support seems guaranteed, whether President Bush affords the larger payment in his coming budget or not. Each day, the war makes it painfully clear that it is the nation's responsibility to rise above politics in dealing fairly with the men and women sacrificing so much in Iraq. The higher payment would be retroactive to the war in Afghanistan; companion proposals would provide cost-free health insurance to the children of those killed in service."b'The death gratuity is separate from the $250,000 in low-cost life insurance that the government makes available to military personnel. This benefit would be raised by $50,000. But it is scandalous that so far, Congress has not stopped the well-documented abuse of military personnel by unscrupulous financial peddlers given entree to bases where they fleece soldiers with overpriced, superfluous insurance plans. As the Iraq adventure shambles on, lawmakers better get to work fleshing out their rhetoric about the soldiers. Supporting the men and women in the military does not just mean making speeches.'b"NEW HAVEN - WHY has the Chinese government been so intent on showing that the former Communist Party chief Zhao Ziyang was a man of no significance, a man whose life should not be celebrated and whose death should pass unsung? The answer that comes most readily to the historian's mind is that Mr. Zhao played a role that has often made Chinese governments deeply uneasy: that of a bold and visionary reformer who insistently calls for change and openness in a tightly controlled political environment. Saluted for a time as one of the leaders of the country, Mr. Zhao sought to use his power and visibility to grant a hearing to the voices of those excluded from the inner circles where decisions were normally made. And when he persisted in this course in the face of opposition from senior leaders in his party, he had to be discarded."b"Many others have played similar roles in China's long history, from as early as the seventh century B.C. Ancient texts suggest a tendency for historians to personalize the idea of reform, to let one or a few individuals give a human face to inchoate and broad-based pleas for change and innovation. Often, those seeking reforms were punished by their own colleagues, so that the concept of reform led to the construction in China of an elaborate and emotionally powerful martyrology."b"China's recent history is studded with such cases that also serve as markers for major political shifts. Near the end of the Qing dynasty, China's last in the long imperial cycle that had endured for over two millenniums, there was a dramatic example. The year was 1898, and the country was smarting from its recent defeat by Japan, and the loss of Taiwan as one of the spoils of war. China's political structure seemed frozen in time, unable to adjust to a new world's market and military forces."b'Persuaded of the need for change, the emperor himself tried to open up the system by inviting a group of independent-minded scholars to the court, where they swiftly introduced plans to develop the economy and tax system, transform education, foster industry, increase the productivity of agriculture, develop the press, and begin discussion of constitutional government and the possibilities of popular participation in decision-making. Before the year was out, the conservative opponents rallied, the emperor was placed under a form of palace arrest, and six of the most outspoken reformers were arrested and summarily executed. Those who had fled in time made it to Japan and a life of exile. The reform movement of 1898 became associated with the names of these six martyrs, though indeed they had spoken for a much larger constituency.'b"In the years after the dynasty's fall in 1912, other individuals made parallel gestures or mounted similar challenges to central establishments, knowing how high the risks might be. One of the new breed of politicians who had risen to prominence in China's first republican elections, held in late 1912, used his newfound influence to challenge the centralizing and militaristic tendencies of China's interim president; he was gunned down in the Shanghai railway station en route to taking up a leadership position in the new Parliament."b"When Chiang Kai-shek was consolidating his power over the Nationalist Party in the 1920's, one of his closest lieutenants sought to increase the participation of leftists and to shift the government onto a more populist course. He too was shot dead on his way to a meeting."b"In 1946, just after the end of World War II, the popular poet Wen Yiduo cried out in anger against what he saw as government coercion against the liberals who were trying to open up the Nationalist Party -- a goal that President Harry Truman's personal emissary to China, Gen. George Marshall, also sought to promote. Wen was shot and killed, just after giving a passionate speech daring the government to take action against him."b"The list could be expanded with many figures in the People's Republic: those who thought they could use the government's Hundred Flowers campaign of 1956-57 to bring a new humanity and a new openness to Communist Party rule; those who sought after the Great Leap Forward of 1958-60 and the famine that followed to bring back private plots and jump-start the rural economy; or those like the army marshal and minister of defense Peng Dehuai, who privately challenged Mao Zedong to open up the shutters that had darkened the economy since the Great Leap, and to listen to the voices of those who were suffering."b"In 1976, after his speech of homage to the deceased Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, when the people of Beijing demonstrated in thousands on Tiananmen Square, it was Deng Xiaoping who seemed to be demanding change; for that bravado, he was purged from the party for a second time. In 1987, it was Hu Yaobang, the party chief who was one of Deng's new prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9s, who fell from grace because he was considered too soft on the fledgling democracy movement. Hu was replaced by Zhao Ziyang, who fell in his turn as he tried to persuade the government to respond more favorably to some of the ideas for greater political participation being framed so vociferously by the demonstrating citizens and students of Tiananmen Square. As the guns were being brought in, Zhao Ziyang wept, and for that the world remembers him."b"In contrast to many earlier reformers, Mr. Zhao was allowed to live out the 15 years of life that remained to him in house arrest in Beijing. But the main issues he had raised about political openness were not addressed. Instead, it was the market-energizing plans, which he had formulated in earlier years in Guangdong and Sichuan provinces, that were enshrined as basic policies for China's boom economy of the late 20th century. It did seem like petty spite for China's government to refuse Mr. Zhao a formal funeral and to deny him the credit that was his due."b"But, if the past is any guide, there will be a kind of corrective justice, as China's leaders seem already to be realizing by modifying their tough stance on the exact funeral arrangements. Indeed, the last thing that China's leaders probably want is for Mr. Zhao to join the long list of reforming martyrs who have made their mark before him."b'Op-Ed Contributor Jonathan Spence, a professor of modern Chinese history at Yale, is the author, most recently, of "Treason by the Book."'b'President Bush began his second term with speculation rising about future military moves against Iran. Last week, Vice President Dick Cheney placed Iran first on the list of world trouble spots and darkly hinted that unless tougher measures were taken to curtail its nuclear program, Israel might launch its own pre-emptive airstrikes. Earlier this month, Seymour Hersh reported in The New Yorker that secret reconnaissance operations have already gotten under way inside Iran, as the Pentagon prepares target lists of nuclear sites that could be attacked from the air or by ground-based commando units.'b'Thus far, Mr. Bush has kept his own counsel. But these hawkish rumblings eerily recall the months before the American invasion of Iraq when some of the same officials pressed hardest for military action, while the president remained publicly uncommitted. Given that experience, it would be foolhardy to dismiss the current rhetorical buildup. We hope that this time, wiser heads in the administration will intervene before it is too late.'b"There is no question that Iran has been covertly developing the capacity to build nuclear weapons, and that diplomacy has so far failed to end these efforts. But precipitate American military action would almost certainly do far more harm than good. No major American ally, including Britain, favors such an approach. American planes and missiles alone cannot knock out all of Iran's many secret nuclear sites."b"An invasion of a country almost three times as populous as Iraq is well beyond the means of America's depleted ground forces. And an American military attack is probably the one thing still able to unite Iran's restive but nationalist population behind the unpopular clerical dictatorship."b'The most effective leverage available to Washington is international economic sanctions. If American diplomacy can line up traditional European allies, there is a fair chance that the Iranian nuclear program can still be stopped.'b"Iran's nuclear ambitions predate the 1979 Islamic revolution. With crucial help from Pakistan and perhaps other countries, Iran now has centrifuges capable of enriching uranium to weapons grade. It also has considerable supplies of uranium ready to be enriched. Iran has promised not to enrich any of that uranium for now, under the terms of an agreement recently negotiated with Britain, France and Germany, and some experts believe there are still technical hurdles to overcome. Even if it mastered enrichment, Iran would still have to design, build and test a usable weapon. The best guess is that Iran remains at least three to five years from having the bomb."b'A nuclear-armed Iran is an alarming prospect, given the radical nature of the Iranian regime, with its long and continuing record of sponsoring international terrorism, its undiluted hostility to the United States and Israel, and its intense regional rivalries with Iraq and Saudi Arabia. So effective crisis diplomacy needs to move into high gear.'b'The freeze on uranium enrichment that Iran agreed to is only temporary. Its duration depends on the results of talks in which the Europeans are seeking a more definitive renunciation of nuclear enrichment. The Iranians, in return, want economic and trade rewards.'b"Expanded commercial ties with America and Europe are very appealing to Iran's ruling mullahs. Having marginalized the reformist political parties, they now see economic sluggishness and high unemployment as the only remaining threat to their continued grip on power. But the mullahs are unlikely to give up their nuclear weapons efforts, which are popular among Iranians of all political persuasions, unless they are plainly told that refusing will bring punishing economic isolation in the very near future. European leaders have not been willing to send that firm message yet, and need to do so."b'The next step should be a unified European-American stand that forces Iran to make a clear choice. Either fully renounce its nuclear enrichment programs and win significant trade and economic incentives or fail to do so and suffer severe economic penalties.'b'The Iranian nuclear challenge could not be more dangerous or more pressing. It is time to put aside unilateral American military bluster and European wishful diplomacy and get serious.'b'Berlin'b'Having spent the last 10 days traveling to Britain, France, Germany and Switzerland, I have one small suggestion for President Bush. I suggest that when he comes to Europe to mend fences next month he give only one speech. It should be at his first stop in Brussels and it should consist of basically three words: "Read my ears."'b"Let me put this as bluntly as I can: There is nothing that the Europeans want to hear from George Bush, there is nothing that they will listen to from George Bush that will change their minds about him or the Iraq war or U.S. foreign policy. Mr. Bush is more widely and deeply disliked in Europe than any U.S. president in history. Some people here must have a good thing to say about him, but I haven't met them yet."b'In such an environment, the only thing that Mr. Bush could do to change people\'s minds about him would be to travel across Europe and not say a single word  - but just listen. If he did that, Mr. Bush would bowl the Europeans over. He would absolutely disarm and flummox people here  - and improve his own image markedly. All it would take for him would be just a few words: "Read my ears. I have come to Europe to listen, not to speak. I will give my Europe speech when I come home  -  after I\'ve heard what you have to say."'b'If Mr. Bush did that none of the European pundits would be able to pick apart his speeches here and mock the contradictions between his words and deeds. None of them would comment on his delivery and what he failed to mention. Instead, all the European commentators, politicians and demonstrators would start fighting with one  another over what to say to the president. It might even force the Europeans to get out of their bad habit  of just saying, "George Bush," and everybody laughing or sneering  as if that ends the conversation, and Europe doesn\'t have to declare what  it stands for.'b"Listening is also a sign of respect. It is a sign that you actually value what the other person might have to say. If you just listen to someone first, it is amazing how much they will listen to you back. Most Europeans, though, are convinced that George Bush is deaf  - that he cannot listen or hear. Just proving that he is not deaf, and therefore the Europeans don't have to shout, would do wonders for Mr. Bush's standing."b'What would Mr. Bush hear? Some of it is classic Eurowhining, easily dismissible. But some of it is very heartfelt, even touching. I heard it while doing interviews at  the Pony Club, a trendy bar/beauty parlor in East Berlin. And more and more I think it explains why many Europeans dislike Mr. Bush so intensely. It\'s this: Europeans love to make fun of na\xc3\xafve American  optimism, but deep down, they envy it and they want America to be that open, foreigner-embracing, carefree, goofily enthusiastic  place that cynical old Europe can never be. Many young Europeans blame Mr. Bush for making America, since 9/11, into a strange new land that exports fear more than hope, and has become dark and brooding  - a place whose greeting to visitors has gone from "Give me your tired,  your poor" to "Give me your fingerprints." They look at Mr. Bush as someone who stole something precious from them.'b'Tim Kreutzfeldt, the bar owner, said to me: "Bush took away our America. I mean we love America. We are very sad about America. We believe in America and American values, but not in Bush. And it makes us angry that he distorted our image of the country which is so important to us. It is not what America stands for - and this makes us angry and it should make every American angry, because America lost so much in its reputation worldwide." The Bush team, he added, is giving everyone in the world the impression that "somebody is coming to kill you."'b'Stefan Elfenbein, a food critic   nursing a beer at our table, added: "I know many people who don\'t want to travel to America anymore. ... People are afraid to be hassled at the border. ... We all discuss it, when somebody goes to America [we now ask:] \'Are you sure?\' We had hope that Kerry would win and would make a statement, \'America is back to what it was four years ago.\' We hoped that he would be the symbol, the figure who would say, \'[America] is the country that welcomes everybody again.\' [But] now we have to wait four more years, hopefully for somebody to give us back the country we knew and liked."'b'Yes, yes, there are legitimate counters to all  these points. But before anyone here will listen to Mr. Bush make those counterpoints, he will have to really listen to them first.'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b"I'm herewith resigning as a member of the liberal media elite."b"I'm joining up with the conservative media elite. They get paid better."b'First comes news that Armstrong Williams got $240,000 from the Education Department to plug the No Child Left Behind Act.'b'The families of soldiers killed in Iraq get a paltry $12,000. But good publicity? Priceless.'b'Mr. Williams helped out the first President Bush and Clarence Thomas during the Anita Hill scandal. Mr. Williams, who served as Mr. Thomas\'s personal assistant at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission when the future Supreme Court justice was gutting policies that would help blacks, gleefully attacked Professor Hill, saying, "Sister has emotional problems," and telling The Wall Street Journal "there is a thin line between her sanity and insanity."'b'Now we learn from the media reporter Howard Kurtz that the syndicated columnist Maggie Gallagher had a $21,500 contract from the Health and Human Services Department to work on material promoting the agency\'s $300 million initiative to encourage marriage. Ms. Gallagher earned her money, even praising Mr. Bush in print as a "genius" at playing "daddy" to the nation. "Mommies feel your pain," she wrote in 2002. "Daddies give you confidence that you can ignore the pain and get on with life."'b'Genius? Not so much. Spendthrift? Definitely. W.\'s administration was running up his astounding deficit paying "journalists" to do what they would be happy to do for free -- just to be friends with benefits, getting access that tougher scribes are denied. Consider Charles Krauthammer, who went to the White House on Jan. 10 for what The Washington Post termed a "consultation" on the inaugural speech and then praised the Jan. 20th address on Fox News as "revolutionary," says Media Matters, a liberal watchdog group.'b"I still have many Christmas bills to pay. So I'd like to send a message to the administration: THIS SPACE AVAILABLE."b'I could write about the strong dollar and the shrinking deficit. Or defend Torture Boy, I mean, the esteemed and sage Alberto Gonzales. Or remind readers of the terrific job Condi Rice did coordinating national security before 9/11 -- who could have interpreted a memo titled "Bin Laden Determined to Attack Inside the United States" as a credible threat? -- not to mention her indefatigable energy obscuring information that undercut the vice president\'s dementia on Iraq.'b"My preference is to get a contract with Rummy. It would be cost effective, compared with the $80 billion he needs to train more Iraqi security forces to be blown up. For half a mil, I could write a doozy of a column promoting Rummy's phantasmagoric policies."b'What is all this hand-wringing about the 31 marines who died in a helicopter crash in Iraq yesterday? It\'s only slightly more than the number of people who died in traffic accidents in California last Memorial Day. The president set the right tone, avoiding pathos when asked about the crash. "Obviously," he said, "any time we lose life it is a sad moment."'b"Who can blame Rummy for carrying out torture policies? We're in an information age. Information is power. If people are not giving you the intelligence you want, you must customize to get the intelligence you want to hear."b'That\'s why Rummy also had to twist U.S. laws to secretly form his own C.I.A. A Pentagon memo said Rummy\'s recruited agents could include "notorious figures," whose ties to the U.S. would be embarrassing if revealed, according to The Washington Post. Why shouldn\'t a notorious figure like Rummy recruit notorious figures?'b"I could write a column denouncing John McCain for trying to call hearings into Rummy's new spy unit, suggesting the senator is just jealous because Rummy's sexy enough to play James Bond."b'The president might need my help as well. He looked out of it yesterday when asked why his foreign policy is so drastically different from the one laid out in Foreign Affairs magazine in 2000 by Ms. Rice -- a preview that did not emphasize promoting democracy and liberty around the world. "I didn\'t read the article," Mr. Bush said.'b'And why should he? Robert McNamara never read the Pentagon Papers. Why should W. have to bone up on his own foreign policy?'b'Freedom means the freedom to be free from reading what you promise voters and other stuff. I could make that case, if the price were right.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b"Correction:  February 1, 2005, Tuesday  An editorial last Thursday incompletely described the contract between the Health and Human Services Department and the conservative columnist Maggie Gallagher. The department paid Ms. Gallagher $21,500 as a consultant on marriage policies, including for help in drafting an essay that was published under the name of an assistant secretary. Ms. Gallagher said the contract did not include promoting the administration's policies in her columns."b"Numbers are a way to deal with the hardships and tragedies of others, without inviting the pain of a more personal connection to someone else's dire situation, to someone else's hard life."b'And so poverty in New York City is captured by noting that 20 percent of residents live below the poverty line, crime is expressed in murders per 1,000 inhabitants, disability as something that afflicts 100,000 New York children in financially stressed households and so on, for all manner of burdens and afflictions, all types of victimization and bad luck.'b"The New York Times realizes this and, indeed, routinely quantifies crises in its pages. Through its Neediest Cases Fund, The New York Times Foundation takes a different approach. The fund reaches New Yorkers by providing cash to local charities who, in turn, dispense the money, one on one, to people most in need of help -- to put food on the table after the untimely death of a breadwinner; to buy special clothing and devices for a disabled baby; to subsidize a struggling immigrant's English lessons; to replace necessities destroyed by fire; to help a single mother pay for day care while she works and attends school. The aim of cash infusions from the fund is to inject aid that is needed when it's needed, to keep dignity alive and families intact."b'In granting money, the fund also supports the people who have dedicated themselves to helping the needy because with the fund to fall back on, a social worker does not have to turn away a fellow New Yorker in need.'b"These are the final days of the annual fund-raising drive for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. To date, we have raised $7.2 million, compared with $7.6 million at this time last year. The Times pays all administrative costs while directing 100 percent of the donations it receives to seven local charities: the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York; the Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens; the Children's Aid Society; the Community Service Society of New York; the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and the UJA-Federation of New York."b'Please send your check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. You may also contribute with a credit card by telephone at (212) 556-5851 (extension 7); or by going online at www.nytimes.com/neediest.'b'Jerusalem - IN January 1945, 60 years ago today, the wheels of destruction in Auschwitz stood still.'b'The few people left alive describe the prevailing silence as the silence of death. Those who came out of hiding after the war -- out of the forests and monasteries -- also describe the shock of liberation as freezing, crippling silence. Nobody was happy. The survivors stood at the fences in amazement. Human language, with all its nuances, turned into a mute tongue. Even words like horror or monster seemed meager and pale, not to mention words like anti-Semitism, envy, hatred. Such a colossal crime can be committed only if you mobilize the darkest dark of the soul. To imagine such darkness apparently needs a new language.'b'"Where were we?" "What did we go through?" "What\'s left of us?" the survivors wondered. Primo Levi tried to use images of Dante\'s hell; others turned to the works of Kafka, especially "The Trial" and "In the Penal Colony."'b"In the penal colony of Auschwitz, the Jew was not condemned because of his old or new beliefs, but because of the blood that flowed in his veins. In the Holocaust, biology determined a person's fate. In the Middle Ages, the Jew was killed for his beliefs. A Jew who chose to convert to Christianity or Islam was saved from his suffering. In the Holocaust, there was no choice. Observant Jews, liberal Jews, communist Jews and Jews who were sure they weren't Jews were crammed into the ghettos and camps. Their one and only offense: the Jewish blood in their veins."b'The Holocaust stretched over six years. Such long years there probably never were in Jewish history. Those were years when every minute, every second, every split-second held more than it could bear. Pain and fear reigned, but even then, in the midst of hunger and humiliation, the amazement sprouted: "Is this Man?"'b'During the Holocaust, there was no place for thought or feeling. The needs of the hungry and thirsty body reduced one to dust. People who had been doctors, lawyers, engineers and professors only yesterday stole a piece of bread from their companions and when they were caught, they denied and lied. This degradation that many experienced will never be wiped out.'b'Under conditions of hunger and cold, the body, we learned in the camps, is liable to lose its divine qualities. That too was part of the wickedness of the murderer: not only to murder, but first to humiliate the victim utterly, to exterminate every shred of will and faith, to turn him into a despicable body whose soul had fled, and only then, that degradation complete, to murder him. The lust to debase the victim until his last moments was just as great as the lust for murder.'b'In 1945, the ovens were extinguished. Jean Am\xc3\xa9ry, a prisoner of Auschwitz and one of the outstanding thinkers on the Holocaust, says in one of his essays: "Anybody who was tortured will never again feel at home in the world."'b'Great natural disasters leave us shocked and mute, but mass murder perpetrated by human beings on human beings is infinitely more painful. Murder reveals wickedness, hatred, cynicism and contempt for all belief. All the evil in man assumed a shape and reality in the ghettos and camps. The empathy that we once believed modern man felt for others was ruined for all time.'b'In 1945, the great migration of the survivors began: a sea of bodies, killed many times over and now resurrected. Some wanted to return to their countries and their homes, and some wanted to go to America, and some wanted to reach the shores of the Mediterranean and go from there to Palestine. Even then, in that strange resurrection, the first questions arose: What is a Jew? Why are we persecuted so bitterly and cruelly? Is there something hidden in us that condemns us to death? Many felt -- if an individual may speak for the many -- that the six years of war were years of profound trial. We had been in both hell and purgatory and we were no longer what we were.'b'Some entered hell as pious people and came out of it just as pious. That position deserves respect. But most survivors -- myself, and especially the young -- were outside the realm of faith, and from the first stages of the liberation, we were engaged with the question of how to go on living a life with meaning. The temptation to forget and be forgotten and to assimilate back into normal life lurked for every survivor. We can barely grasp and internalize the death of one child. How can we grasp the death of millions?'b'For the sake of sanity, the survivors built barriers between themselves and the horrors they had experienced. But every barrier, every distance, inevitably separates you from the most meaningful experience of your life, and without that experience, hard as it may be, you are doubly defective: a defect imposed on you by the murderers and a defect you perpetrated with your own hands.'b'God did not reveal himself in Auschwitz or in other camps. The survivors came out of hell wounded and humiliated. They were betrayed by the neighbors among whom they and their forefathers had lived. They were betrayed by Western culture, by the Germans, by the language and literature they admired so much. They were betrayed by the great beliefs: liberalism and progress. They were betrayed by their own bodies.'b"What to hold onto to live a meaningful life? It was clear to many that the denial of one's Judaism, which characterized the emancipated Jew, was no longer possible. After the Holocaust it was immoral."b'No wonder many of the survivors went on to Israel. No doubt, they wanted to get to a place where they could leave their victimhood behind and assert responsibility over their fate, a place where they could connect with the culture of their forefathers, to the language of the Bible, and to the land that gave birth to the Bible.'b'This is not a story with a happy ending. A doctor who survived, from a religious background, who sailed to Israel with us in June 1946, told us: "We didn\'t see God when we expected him, so we have no choice but to do what he was supposed to do: we will protect the weak, we will love, we will comfort. From now on, the responsibility is all ours."'b'Op-Ed Contributor Aharon Appelfeld is the author, most recently, of "The Story of a Life." This article was translated by Barbara Harshav from the Hebrew.'b"Social Security privatization really is like tax cuts, or the Iraq war: the administration keeps on coming up with new rationales, but the plan remains the same. President Bush's claim that we must privatize Social Security to avert an imminent crisis has evidently fallen flat. So now he's playing the race card."b'This week, in a closed meeting with African-Americans, Mr. Bush asserted that Social Security was a bad deal for their race, repeating his earlier claim that "African-American males die sooner than other males do, which means the system is inherently unfair to a certain group of people." In other words, blacks don\'t live long enough to collect their fair share of benefits.'b"This isn't a new argument; privatizers have been making it for years. But the claim that blacks get a bad deal from Social Security is false. And Mr. Bush's use of that false argument is doubly shameful, because he's exploiting the tragedy of high black mortality for political gain instead of treating it as a problem we should solve."b'Let\'s start with the facts. Mr. Bush\'s argument goes back at least seven years, to a report issued by the Heritage Foundation -- a report so badly misleading that the deputy chief actuary (now the chief actuary) of the Social Security Administration wrote a memo pointing out "major errors in the methodology." That\'s actuary-speak for "damned lies."'b'In fact, the actuary said, "careful research reflecting actual work histories for workers by race indicate that the nonwhite population actually enjoys the same or better expected rates of return from Social Security" as whites.'b"Here's why. First, Mr. Bush's remarks on African-Americans perpetuate a crude misunderstanding about what life expectancy means. It's true that the current life expectancy for black males at birth is only 68.8 years -- but that doesn't mean that a black man who has worked all his life can expect to die after collecting only a few years' worth of Social Security benefits. Blacks' low life expectancy is largely due to high death rates in childhood and young adulthood. African-American men who make it to age 65 can expect to live, and collect benefits, for an additional 14.6 years -- not that far short of the 16.6-year figure for white men."b'Second, the formula determining Social Security benefits is progressive: it provides more benefits, as a percentage of earnings, to low-income workers than to high-income workers. Since African-Americans are paid much less, on average, than whites, this works to their advantage.'b"Finally, Social Security isn't just a retirement program; it's also a disability insurance program. And blacks are much more likely than whites to receive disability benefits."b'Put it all together, and the deal African-Americans get from Social Security turns out, according to various calculations, to be either about the same as that for whites or somewhat better. Hispanics, by the way, clearly do better than either.'b'So the claim that Social Security is unfair to blacks is just false. And the fact that privatizers keep making that claim, after their calculations have repeatedly been shown to be wrong, is yet another indicator of the fundamental dishonesty of their sales pitch.'b"What's really shameful about Mr. Bush's exploitation of the black death rate, however, is what it takes for granted."b'The persistent gap in life expectancy between African-Americans and whites is one measure of the deep inequalities that remain in our society -- including highly unequal access to good-quality health care. We ought to be trying to diminish that gap, especially given the fact that black infants are two and half times as likely as white babies to die in their first year.'b"Now nobody can expect instant progress in reducing health inequalities. But the benefits of Social Security privatization, if any, won't materialize for many decades. By using blacks' low life expectancy as an argument for privatization, Mr. Bush is in effect taking it as a given that 40 or 50 years from now, large numbers of African-Americans will still be dying before their time."b'Is this an example of what Mr. Bush famously called "the soft bigotry of low expectations?" Maybe not: it isn\'t particularly soft to treat premature black deaths not as a tragedy we must end but as just another way to push your ideological agenda. But bigotry -- yes, that sounds like the right word.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com'b''b'Correction Appended'b''b'Princeton, N.J. - LAST week President Bush again laid out a faith-based view of the world and again took heat for it. Human history, the president said in his inaugural address, "has a visible direction, set by liberty and the author of liberty." Accordingly, America will pursue "the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world" -- and Mr. Bush has "complete confidence" of success. Critics on the left and right warned against grounding foreign policy in such na\xc3\xafve optimism (a world without tyrants?) and such unbounded faith.'b'But the problem with the speech is actually the opposite. Mr. Bush has too little hope, and too little faith. He underestimates the impetus behind freedom and so doesn\'t see how powerfully it imparts a "visible direction" to history. This lack of faith helps explain some of his biggest foreign policy failures and suggests that there are more to come.'b"Oddly, the underlying problem is that this Republican president doesn't appreciate free markets. Mr. Bush doesn't see how capitalism helps drive history toward freedom via an algorithm that for all we know is divinely designed and is in any event awesomely elegant. Namely: Capitalism's pre-eminence as a wealth generator means that every tyrant has to either embrace free markets or fall slowly into economic oblivion; but for markets to work, citizens need access to information technology and the freedom to use it -- and that means having political power."b"This link between economic and political liberty has been extolled by conservative thinkers for centuries, but the microelectronic age has strengthened it. Even China's deftly capitalist-yet-authoritarian government -- which embraces technology while blocking Web sites and censoring chat groups -- is doomed to fail in the long run. China is increasingly porous to news and ideas, and its high-tech political ferment goes beyond online debates. Last year a government official treated a blue-collar worker high-handedly in a sidewalk encounter and set off a riot -- after news of the incident spread by cell phones and text messaging."b"You won't hear much about such progress from neoconservatives, who prefer to stress how desperately the global fight for freedom needs American power behind it (and who last week raved about an inaugural speech that vowed to furnish this power). And, to be sure, neoconservatives can rightly point to lots of oppression and brutality in China and elsewhere -- as can liberal human-rights activists. But anyone who talks as if Chinese freedom hasn't grown since China went capitalist is evincing a hazy historical memory and, however obliquely, is abetting war. Right-wing hawks thrive on depicting tyranny as a force of nature, when in fact nature is working toward its demise."b"The president said last week that military force isn't the principal lever he would use to punish tyrants. But that mainly leaves economic levers, like sanctions and exclusion from the World Trade Organization. Given that involvement in the larger capitalist world is time-release poison for tyranny, impeding this involvement is an odd way to aid history's march toward freedom. Four decades of economic isolation have transformed Fidel Castro from a young, fiery dictator into an old, fiery dictator."b"Economic exclusion is especially perverse in cases where inclusion could work as a carrot. Suppose, for example, that a malignant authoritarian regime was developing nuclear weapons and you might stop it by offering membership in the W.T.O. It's a twofer -- you draw tyrants into a web of commerce that will ultimately spell their doom, and they pay for the privilege by disarming. What president could resist that?"b'Correct! President Bush is sitting on the sidelines scowling as the European Union tries to strike that very bargain with Iran.'b"It's possible that skepticism about the European initiative is justified -- that Iran, in the end, would rather have the bomb than a seat in the W.T.O. But there's one way for the Bush administration to find out: Outline a highly intrusive arms inspection regime and say that the United States will support W.T.O. membership if the inspectors find no weapons program (or if Iran fesses up) and are allowed to set up long-term monitoring."b"There are various explanations for Mr. Bush's position. Maybe some in the administration fear losing a rationale for invading Iran. Maybe the administration is ideologically opposed to arms control agreements (a strange position, post-9/11). But part of the problem seems to be that Mr. Bush doesn't grasp the liberating power of capitalism, the lethal effect of luring authoritarian regimes into the modern world of free markets and free minds."b'That would help explain the amazing four-year paralysis of America\'s North Korea policy. Reluctant to invade, yet allergic to "rewarding" tyrants with economic incentives and international engagement, the president sat by while North Korea\'s leader, Kim Jong Il, apparently built up a nuclear arsenal. Now, with Iran no more than a few years from having the bomb, we\'re watching this movie again. And it may be a double feature: the inertia we saw in North Korea followed by the war we\'ve seen in Iraq. With Iraq and Iran in flames (live, on Al Jazeera!) and Mr. Kim coolly stockpiling nukes, President Bush will have hit the axis-of-evil trifecta.'b"Pundits have mined Mr. Bush's inaugural address for literary antecedents -- Kennedy here, Lincoln there, a trace of Truman. But some of it was pure Bill Clinton. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton said that history was on freedom's side and stressed that freedom abroad serves America's interests. But he also saw -- and explicitly articulated -- something absent from Mr. Bush's inaugural vision: the tight link between economic and political liberty in the information age, the essentially redeeming effect of globalization. That's one reason Mr. Clinton defied intraparty opposition to keep commerce with China and other nations strong."b"In the wake of John Kerry's defeat, Democrats have been searching for a new foreign policy vision. But Mr. Clinton laid down as solid a template for post-9/11 policy as you could expect from a pre-9/11 president."b'First, fight the spread of weapons of mass destruction, which means, among other things, making arms inspections innovatively intrusive, as in the landmark Chemical Weapons Convention that President Clinton signed (and that Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld, et. al., opposed). Second, pursue terrorist networks overtly and covertly (something Mr. Clinton did more aggressively than the pre-9/11 Bush administration). Third, make America liked and respected abroad (as opposed to, say, loathed and reviled). Fourth, seek lasting peace in the Middle East (something Mr. Bush keeps putting off until after the next war).'b'And finally, help the world mature into a comprehensive community of nations -- bound by economic interdependence and a commitment to liberty, and cooperating in the global struggle against terrorism and in law enforcement generally.'b"But in pursuing that last goal, respect and harness the forces in your favor. Give history some guidance, but resist the flattering delusion that you're its pilot. Don't take military and economic weapons off the table, but appreciate how sparingly you can use them when the architect of history is on your side. Have a little faith."b'Op-Ed Contributor Robert Wright, a fellow at Princeton University\'s Center for Human Values and at the New America Foundation, is the author of "Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny."'b'Correction:  February 1, 2005, Tuesday  An Op-Ed article on Friday about free markets and freedom provided an incomplete history of the Chemical Weapons Convention. While President Bill Clinton signed the executive order putting the convention into effect, President George H.W. Bush signed the original treaty.'b'Even as expert advisers to the Food and Drug Administration prepare to take a closer look at a potentially risky class of painkillers, the COX-2 inhibitors, disturbing new evidence has emerged that these drugs have been prescribed primarily to patients who do not need them. If an analysis just published in The Archives of Internal Medicine holds up under further scrutiny, it will provide a telling example of how an avalanche of marketing can propel the use of new drugs far beyond reason, posing needless risks to patients they are unlikely to help.'b'Clinical studies show that COX-2 inhibitors, like Vioxx and Celebrex, are no more effective as pain relievers than many older nonprescription drugs. Their presumed advantage is that they are thought to pose less risk of such severe gastrointestinal side effects as ulcers or bleeding, which kill thousands of people each year. Unfortunately, the drugs can also pose a cardiovascular risk. Vioxx has been shown to cause a small increase in heart attacks or strokes with prolonged use, causing the manufacturer to pull it from the market. The whole class of COX-2 drugs is now under review.'b'The COX-2 drugs were initially hailed as potential lifesavers for a small minority of patients at real risk of fatal gastrointestinal effects. But according to researchers at the University of Chicago and Stanford, almost two-thirds of the COX-2 drugs prescribed from 1999 to 2002 went to patients with a low or very low risk of gastrointestinal complications. They were not appropriate candidates, under professional treatment guidelines, for the drugs.'b'The research did not show why COX-2 usage expanded indiscriminately, but there seems little doubt that intense advertising and promotional campaigns inevitably snared many patients who should not have taken them. Indeed, the growth in COX-2 use over time was primarily among patients least likely to benefit.'b'Two advisory panels to the Food and Drug Administration will meet in mid-February to consider an array of studies on the safety and benefits of the remaining COX-2 drugs. Some consumer advocates want a ban on all drugs in the class, while other experts suggest that not all of them pose the same cardiovascular risk. Should the F.D.A. choose to allow some COX-2 drugs on the market, it will need to find ways to limit their use to those who truly need them.'b"In a lot of ways New York is a wonderful city. For my money, it's the greatest. But like most American cities, it's weathering fiscal hard times. Despite Mayor Michael Bloomberg's upbeat tone at yesterday's budget presentation, it's a city that can't afford its share of the basic upkeep for its schools, its libraries, its day care centers and so forth."b"It's a city of some eight million people that dangerously shortchanges its Fire Department because money is hard to come by. It's a city that has been unable, due to budget constraints, to reach contract agreements with crucial city employees, including firefighters, police officers and teachers."b"In short, it's tapped out. Over the past couple of years the city has relied more and more on corporations, wealthy individuals and foundations to pay for municipal services and functions that the city can no longer afford to provide."b"The mayor proposed more than a half-billion dollars in budget cuts yesterday as part of an array of proposals (some of them fanciful) to close a budget gap of about $1.5 billion. This is an election-year budget. You can bet heavily that next year's budget will be worse."b'New York State is in worse fiscal shape than the city. Much worse, actually. For one thing, Mayor Bloomberg has been far more responsible when it comes to fiscal matters than Gov. George Pataki, who seems to have studied at the George W. Bush School of Economics.'b"The state, for example, has the primary responsibility for financing local school systems. But the governor and other state officials, already faced with daunting deficits, are clueless about how to comply with a court order to come up with billions of dollars in additional state aid for New York City's chronically underfinanced schools."b"Gambling has been one of the governor's favorite strategies for raising school funds. For the longest time he has promoted the idea of bolstering school aid through the use of video lottery terminals -- a wretchedly destructive little system known to its detractors as video crack."b'The point here is that neither the city nor the state has a dime to spare. Subway lines are falling apart because 19th-century signal systems have been neither upgraded nor protected. Plans for critically needed school construction are being deferred. After-school programs, which are literally lifelines for many youngsters, have to be shut down because they are not "affordable."'b"And yet. Ah, yes. If there's one thing in this unhappy fiscal environment that Mayor Bloomberg will absolutely go to the mat for (carrying along the governor and any other powerful figures he can muster), it's that football stadium for his fellow billionaire, Robert Wood Johnson IV, owner of the New York Jets."b"At $1.4 billion, this playground for the richest among us would be the most expensive sports stadium in the history of the world. The city and the state, which can't afford toilet paper for the public schools, would put up a minimum of $600 million and undoubtedly much more. The smart money says the public will take at least a billion-dollar hit on this project so Woody Johnson can hold court amid a sea of luxury boxes hard by the Hudson on the Far West Side of Manhattan."b"How foolish is this project? They're planning to build a 75,000-seat stadium without any parking facilities to go along with it. Can you imagine what the West Side will look like on a game day? (The mayor's people got into a snit last October when officials in New Jersey wouldn't let Hizzoner land his helicopter at the Jets' current home in the New Jersey Meadowlands. He wanted to arrive too close to game time, the officials said. They suggested he come by bus.)"b"If you're not rich and you don't already have season tickets to Jets games, you will have very little chance of ever seeing the team in its new digs. The waiting list for tickets is 10 years."b"But if there's any justice at all, this stadium will never see the light of day. To take the public's money, which should be used for schoolkids, for subway riders, for hospital patients -- for any number of projects that might truly serve the public's interest -- and hand it over to a billionaire who will use it as seed money to further his already fabulous interests is obscene."b"I presume there will be naming rights for Woody's wonderful new playground. I can see the sign now: Bloomberg's Boondoggle."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"Now that Oklahoma's citizenry has forced the state to ban cockfighting, a diehard state senator has the gall to try to revive the lurid pastime by equipping roosters with -- picture this -- tiny boxing gloves and chest protectors. Nothing so far about teeny-weeny shorts and head protectors, or a trained monkey with a wee bow tie who knows the 10-count. But State Senator Frank Shurden seems open to any idea in his obsession to bring cockfights back to Oklahoma, one of the last states to ban them."b'Voters had to bypass obstructive legislators like him two years ago with a referendum to outlaw the pits where thousands of birds fought to the death for the blood-spattered delight of illicit gamblers.'b"This year, having lost in court, the state's defunct fighting cock industry seems intent on abusing chickens via human parody, right down to an electronic scoring system to record combatants' pecks, \xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9e-like, by way of the avian chest protectors."b'"Who\'s going to object to chickens fighting like humans do?" asks Senator Shurden, the choice of the people, if not the roosters, in Henryetta. Voters thought that they took care of Oklahoma\'s national embarrassment two years ago. But they still have Senator Shurden scratching and clucking about, dropping free-ranging initiatives into the hopper.'b"It took impressive personal courage for Viktor Yushchenko to overcome a nearly fatal poisoning and brazen electoral fraud to become Ukraine's new president. It will now take extraordinary political agility for him to begin delivering on the huge expectations that accompany him into office. He needs to strike out boldly in several very different directions: healing the geographic and political divisions accentuated by the campaign, rooting out entrenched government and business corruption, and charting a course toward eventual European Union membership without alienating Russia."b'Mr. Yushchenko is off to a fairly encouraging start. His inaugural speech last Sunday was broadly conciliatory and emphasized clean government and the rule of law. The next day, he took a symbolically significant trip to Moscow, where he spoke of Russia as Ukraine\'s "eternal strategic partner." Russia\'s president, Vladimir Putin, wisely extricated himself from his earlier ham-handed support for Mr. Yushchenko\'s opponent and the electoral manipulations staged in his behalf.'b"On a more troubling note, Mr. Yushchenko nominated Yulia Tymoshenko, an outspoken and ambitious ally, as prime minister. That choice is especially significant because some presidential powers were transferred to Parliament last month, enhancing the prime minister's stature. Ms. Tymoshenko could become still more powerful if the dioxin poisoning Mr. Yushchenko suffered last year should leave him with serious, lasting health problems."b"Ms. Tymoshenko is a divisive figure who rose to prominence in the 1990's as a rich and powerful energy executive. She has gone from being an ally of a corrupt prime minister to a fighter of corruption, then was briefly jailed on fraud and money-laundering charges that she insists were political, and were dismissed. But the problem with her nomination lies less in these distant events than in Ms. Tymoshenko's demagogic and uncompromising speeches over the past few weeks. She had publicly boasted that Mr. Yushchenko had pledged to make her prime minister in a deal he could not withdraw. He must now make sure she understands that he, not she, will be setting the ultimate direction of Ukrainian policy."b"National reconciliation must be more than a slogan in a country where most of the industry and wealth are located in regions that voted overwhelmingly against Mr. Yushchenko. It is there, especially, that Ms. Tymoshenko is seen as needlessly divisive. She now needs to erase that impression by loyally carrying out Mr. Yushchenko's policies."b'Three years ago, President Bush created the Millennium Challenge Account to give more money to poor countries that are committed to policies promoting development. Mr. Bush said his government would donate billions in incremental stages until the program got to a high of $5 billion a year starting in 2006. While $5 billion is just 0.04 percent of America\'s national income, President Bush touted the proposal as proof that he cares about poverty in Africa and elsewhere. "I carry this commitment in my soul," the president said.'b'For the third straight year, Mr. Bush has committed a lot less than he promised. Michael Phillips of The Wall Street Journal reports that the White House has quietly informed the managers of the Millennium Challenge Account to expect about $3 billion in the next budget. This follows a sad pattern. Mr. Bush said he would ask Congress for $1.7 billion in 2004; he asked for $1.3 billion and got $1 billion. He said he would ask for $3.3 billion in 2005; he asked for $2.5 billion and got $1.5 billion.'b'So if past is prologue, the Republican Congress will cut the diluted 2006 pledge even further.'b'None of that appears to bother the Bush administration, which continues to send high-ranking officials into the world to promote the anemic Millennium Challenge Account to poor nations. The program -- not the money, since the account has yet to pay out a single dollar -- is high on the list of talking points for cabinet officials like the United States trade representative, Robert Zoellick, who visited Africa in December and cited the program every chance he got. Speaking to Latin American ambassadors in Washington this month, a Treasury under secretary, John Taylor, hailed it as a "major way in which we are working with countries to meet the challenge of increasing productivity growth."'b'Officials at the Millennium Challenge Account are quick to list the countries that, through good governance, have qualified for the aid program. They are not as quick to list the countries that have received a dime: there aren\'t any. Still, Paul Applegarth, chief executive of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, assured us last week that President Bush\'s program is "really moving at an extraordinarily quick pace."'b'Maybe the administration should tell that to the 300 million Africans who lack safe drinking water, or the 3,000 African children under the age of 5 who die every day from malaria, or the 1 in 16 African women who die in childbirth, or the 6,000 Africans who die each day of AIDS. But wait. Maybe the president is planning to deal with the African AIDS catastrophe through his 2003 proposal to increase AIDS funds by $10 billion over the following five years?'b"Not unless he is planning to finish with a bang, because the White House is expected to ask Congress for only $1.6 billion more next year. When added to the amount that AIDS funds increased in 2004 and 2005, that would leave a whopping more than $6 billion to get out of Congress in the next two years to meet Mr. Bush's pledge. Congress and Mr. Bush will point to the ballooning deficit and say they don't have the money. But that was a matter of choice. They chose to spend billions on tax cuts for the wealthy and the war in Iraq. They can choose to spend it instead to keep America's promises."b"Plano, Tex. - BY the time you read this, I'll have packed my suitcases into the car and will be headed for Nashville, Tenn., one of the five American cities where Iraqi exiles in this country are gathering to vote in the Iraqi national elections this weekend. In the past few weeks, I've been helping to organize trips to Nashville for some of the 5,000 Iraqi Kurds who live in the Dallas area and who are eager to vote, even if it means taking time off work and enduring a 24-hour round trip. But until recently, I wasn't so sure that I wanted to vote myself."b"In 1976, when I was 15, my older brother and I left behind our parents, four brothers, three sisters, 500 cousins and our beloved village of Dargala, in the Kurdish part of Iraq, to come to the United States. We also left behind many bad memories: of hiding out in freezing caves in the mountains to escape the Baathists' bombardment of the Kurds, of seeing our uncle's family blown up by government planes."b"What we didn't have was any memories of seeing anyone in our family vote. Saddam Hussein's candidates always won 100 percent of the vote, but the election booths in our section of Iraq were in the form of mass graves. There was no indelible ink to prevent fraud in elections, only the indelible pain of broken dreams and the loss of loved ones since our part of Kurdistan was annexed to Iraq in the 1920's."b"When I voted in this country for the first time, I thought how lucky Americans were. A vote is taken for granted here, while back in Iraq people died (and are dying now) for it. I've voted in every election here since."b'And on Sunday my large family in Iraq will all vote. For my 72-year-old father and my 70-year-old mother, it will be their first time. My mother told me that she would brave the current blizzard in the mountains of Kurdistan to go vote, even though she is very ill. My father, a Kurdish freedom fighter for two decades, looks forward to voting as eagerly as a child waiting to open his Christmas gifts.'b'They do not want America to fail in its effort to bring democracy to Iraq. Above all, they and the seven million other Kurds want to cast a vote for a new Iraq that will be based on the principles of freedom, federalism, and the recognition that any union between the Arab majority and the Kurdish minority is voluntary.'b'Nonetheless, when I heard about the plans for Iraqis in the United States to vote in the national elections, my initial reaction was not to participate. Although I feel a strong tie to my homeland, I am an American citizen, and my life is here now.'b'But then came the news that 31 marines died on Wednesday in western Iraq when their helicopter crashed as they were on what Gen. John Abizaid said was a "mission in support of the election." How can I ignore the sacrifices of these marines who died so my family can vote? The best way for me to honor their martyrdom is to vote myself.'b'That means that my wife, Allea, and I are driving to Nashville. Coming along with us will be our 7-year-old daughter, Connie. She will get to see something that I never got to see as a child: her parents voting for freedom in an Iraqi election.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Bakhtiar Dargali is a partner in an environmental consulting firm.'b"The conditions under which Iraqis will be voting tomorrow are obviously bad: a poorly prepared election conducted in an atmosphere of escalating violence and lawlessness. But the time for addressing those problems is past. It's important now to focus on the hope that a reasonably successful election can be a large first step toward a self-governing and stable Iraq that can survive without huge numbers of American troops."b'That sounds like a goal everyone should support. Yet thousands of Iraqi insurgents are expected to mount violent attacks while millions of other Iraqis -- the intimidated and the alienated -- seem likely to sit out the vote.'b"Given those realities, the bar for relative electoral success is low: a fairly high nationwide turnout that includes some significant elements of all major Iraqi religious and ethnic communities. It seems certain that Sunni Arabs, a minority, will vote in numbers below their representation in Iraq's population because of the rampant insecurity in Sunni-dominated provinces north and west of Baghdad. But the damage could be limited if sufficient numbers of Sunni voters elsewhere ignored the advice of most Sunni political leaders and cast their votes."b"The most important task of the new 275-seat legislature will be drafting a new constitution, and it's heartening to see some leading politicians from Shiite parties acknowledge the importance of adequate Sunni participation. The more moderate Sunni leaders, while still calling for an election boycott, are nevertheless making it clear that they do want to be involved in the constitutional debate after the election. We hope that happens under any circumstances, but the best way to guarantee such participation would be for Sunni politicians to urge those of their followers who live in secure areas to vote."b'The issue of Sunni participation did not have to become this dicey. More energetic and systematic efforts to integrally involve representative Sunni leaders, including former Baathists and nationalists from insurgent zones, should have begun long ago, even before Washington handed power to the current interim government, which is dominated by exile-rooted parties and Shiite and Kurdish politicians.'b'Numerous opportunities since then have been foolishly passed up. Even as late as last month, when the extent of Sunni Arab alienation from the election process became overwhelmingly evident, a willingness to consider postponing the voting until this spring in exchange for a voter drive led by Sunnis might have helped.'b"One reason that possibility was never seriously explored was the Bush administration's insistence on holding to the original election timetable. Washington gambled that a January vote would please the Shiites and Kurds and that if it credibly established a new legislature and constitutional assembly, large numbers of Sunnis would turn their back on the insurgency and rush into the arms, and armed forces, of the new government. The wisdom of that gamble will be clearer after tomorrow's vote."b"POIPET, Cambodia - Optimism and sex trafficking don't usually go together."b"Yet despite the widespread belief that sex slavery is intractable and inevitable, it isn't. Look, prostitution itself will probably always be around, but we could largely stop the buying and selling of the teenagers who are routinely held in bondage in brothels from Calcutta to Belize."b'If this is an optimistic column, one reason is that I had originally planned to use this space differently. I had thought I would find and write about whoever had replaced Srey Neth, the teenager I had purchased for $150 and then freed a year ago.'b"So I climbed to the top floor of the Phnom Pich Guesthouse (past the sign asking guests not to bring in their machine guns or hand grenades) and found the room that used to be Srey Neth's world. But now the entire floor is empty."b"It turned out that the police had raided the guesthouse right after my columns a year ago and arrested Srey Neth's pimp. So now the local sex traffickers are more careful about peddling virgins."b"There's a lesson there. In the long run the best way to address the problem is to educate girls and raise their status in society. But a law-enforcement model -- sending traffickers to prison -- is also very effective in reducing the worst forms of sex slavery."b'"It\'s pretty doable," said Gary Haugen, who runs International Justice Mission, a Washington-based organization that does terrific work in battling sex trafficking. "You don\'t have to arrest everybody. You just have to get enough that it sends a ripple effect and changes the calculations."'b'He added wryly that his aim is to "drive traffickers of virgin village girls to fence stolen radios instead."'b'With that aim in mind, the West should pressure nations like Cambodia to adopt a two-part strategy. First, such nations must crack down on the worst forms of flesh-peddling. (A U.N. report estimated that in Asia alone, "one million children are involved in the sex trade under conditions that are indistinguishable from slavery.")'b'Two girls, age 4 and 6, were being quietly offered for sale in Poipet earlier this month. That kind of child abuse can be defeated, as has been shown in the Cambodian hamlet of Svay Pak, which specialized in pedophilia. When I first visited it, 6-year-olds were served up for $3 a session, but after foreign pressure, those brothels are now shuttered.'b"Second, they must crack down on corrupt police officers who protect the slave traders. Here in Poipet, local people whispered to me that one brothel kept terrified young virgin girls locked up in the back, awaiting sale. So I marched in the brothel's back entrance and looked around."b'As it happened, this brothel was undergoing an expansion, which will make it the biggest in town, and the back rooms were all undergoing renovation and empty. But then the owner rushed in -- and introduced himself as a senior police official.'b'I asked him if he imprisoned young girls in his brothel, and he replied: "That\'s impossible, because I work in the police criminal division, and so I clearly know the law."'b"Getting countries like Cambodia to confront the sale of children is easier than one may think. I'm generally very suspicious of economic sanctions, but the U.S. State Department's office on trafficking has used the threat of sanctions very effectively to get foreign governments to take steps against trafficking (such as the closing of the pedophilia brothels at Svay Pak). But it shouldn't be just one lonely office in the State Department demanding crackdowns. Where's everybody else?"b'On a reporting trip to Cambodia in 1996, I met a 15-year-old Cambodian girl who had been kidnapped off the street and imprisoned in a brothel. Her mother finally tracked her down, and they had a loving reunion in the brothel. But the pimp had paid good money for the girl and refused to give her up. The police protected the brothel, so the mother had to leave without her daughter.'b"That girl, now probably dead of AIDS, haunts me still. It was partly shame at not having intervened then that led me to breach journalistic custom last year and buy the freedom of the two sex slaves I wrote about. The solution, though, isn't to buy individual girls -- that only makes trafficking more profitable -- but to put traffickers behind bars."b"Nearly a decade after I interviewed that girl, this scourge is poisoning more young lives than ever. I'm optimistic that we have the tools to wipe out this modern slavery -- but do we have the will?"b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com'b'SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. - Forty years ago this month, a housewife named Lucille Miller -- just turning 35 -- came to trial in San Bernardino for the murder of her husband, a dentist who was named Gordon Miller and called Cork. The murder was a clumsy one. Cork Miller burned to death in the back seat of a 1964 Volkswagen. According to the district attorney, Lucille Miller intended to make it look as if the car had rolled over an embankment and burst into flames. She would have had time in that deserted neighborhood to get home before the accident was reported. Instead, the car got stuck in the sand in low gear, and burst into flames anyway.'b'The trial was a sensation, and not only because Lucille Miller was pregnant when it began. It was also a trial of the pretensions of the "New California," out at the edge of the subdivision frontier.'b'And so it remains. All the local papers covered the case, as did Joan Didion, who wrote about it in one of the great essays of the 20th century, "Some Dreamers of the Golden Dream." It is an essay of almost biblical wrath and dispassion. Behind its keening rhythms and daylight horrors lies Ms. Didion\'s sense that this new California, perpetually subdividing, perpetually suckering its dreamers, is guilty of a kind of misprision that she, a native Californian, refuses to share. The essay is often misread as an indictment of Lucille Miller. It is not. It is an indictment of a false promise, the "revolving credit and dreams about bigger houses, better streets," the cascading of debt and adultery and sedatives and lies behind a facade of religious, socially ambitious respectability.'b'Ms. Didion begins with an almost tidal surge that condenses the history of the San Bernardino Valley into its debris, circa 1965, and its strange jumble of na\xc3\xafve beliefs: in Tijuana divorces, in biblical literalism, in the false glamour of the movies. Then comes the line that propels the story forward to the very end: "Imagine Banyan Street first, because Banyan is where it happened." A short trip from San Bernardino down Route 66 and the reader is suddenly thrust onto the scene of the crime, caught in a tangle of lush, green foliage with the mountains towering overhead.'b"As it happens, I am living, for a few months, only a few miles away. It came as a surprise to realize that. Driving to Banyan Street would have seemed to me once about as likely as driving to Oz, if only because Ms. Didion's prose places the street in some mythic territory."b'But the other morning -- a cool, wet dawn with the sun just passing between the horizon and the rim of clouds in the east -- I drove out Foothill Boulevard (Route 66) into Rancho Cucamonga, turned up Vineyard Avenue, which becomes Carnelian Street, and onto Banyan. The landmarks that guided Ms. Didion -- like the Kapu Kai Restaurant at what was then the corner of Carnelian and Foothill -- are long since gone. But that older California was never meant to be permanent. It was meant to be succeeded by something newer, better, always more upscale.'b'When Ms. Didion saw it, Banyan Street was almost the edge of beyond, past the "faded bungalows of the people who grow a few grapes and keep a few chickens out here." It was a gravel road lined with eucalyptus and lemon groves. Ms. Didion saw something sinister in the clash between the dusty exfoliations of the eucalyptus and the "unsettlingly glossy" lemon leaves. A few hundred yards from the corner of Banyan and Sapphire, at the edge of an embankment that no longer exists, Lucille Miller killed her husband.'b'There is, of course, no trace of the crime any longer. Nor is there any trace of the lemon groves. They have vanished as surely as a Saturday Evening Post that would publish an essay like Joan Didion\'s. I knew what I would find, of course. It is what you find everywhere in this state: an almost unlimited expansion of the new California that Lucille Miller hoped to invent for herself after she collected the double-indemnity insurance benefit from her husband\'s "accidental" death. The houses on Banyan Street are far bigger than she would have imagined, though the lots are smaller. There is only one grove left -- an orange grove -- and it is a quarter acre at most. The trees are heavy with fruit, but no one seems to harvest the oranges.'b'Banyan Street is now as orderly as orderly can be. There is not a chicken or a grape in sight, and for all I know there is not a murderous spouse to be found. The houses slope away down the long alluvial hill, toward the Foothill Freeway and the valley beyond. The street is lined with trash containers standing at attention along the curbs.'b"I drove farther up Carnelian to find the street where Louise and Cork Miller lived in 1965. It's called Bella Vista, up near the top of Carnelian. The address was 8488."b'Ms. Didion quotes a street sign in her essay: PRIVATE ROAD BELLA VISTA DEAD END. Bella Vista is still private and well marked, carefully warning horseback riders and drivers that this is private property, even though Bella Vista is indistinguishable from the public streets around it. In the recent rains, a tributary of Cucamonga Creek has nearly washed out the pavement in the middle of the block, and the dead end is caused by the gash of an even larger tributary -- 8488 would have stood hard against that narrow wash. Nothing is there now but a vacant lot. If you were to walk up that lot, you would be able to see the eastern rim of the mountains against the sun and the morning haze over the whole of the San Bernardino Valley.'b'The privacy of Bella Vista still feels strangely threatening, even 40 years later, and yet, as the game of privacy is played in California these days, Bella Vista is strictly an amateur. At the top of Carnelian, I came upon what you come upon at the top of nearly any road in California: a walled and gated "estate" full of houses, as carefully divided from the rest of Rancho Cucamonga as if they were overlooking Lima or Mexico City. "Time past," Ms. Didion writes, "is not believed to have any bearing upon time present or future, out in the golden land." Maybe not, but the residents high in their compounds -- at a peak well beyond Lucille Miller\'s poor ambitions -- are taking no chances.'b"Earlier this month, the British pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline introduced a vaccine against rotavirus, one of the world's leading child-killers. The debut of Rotarix is particularly newsworthy because it took place in Mexico -- this is the first time a major drug company has bypassed America and Europe to introduce a vaccine. Glaxo plans to extend Rotarix to other Latin American countries and Asia by the end of the year. It has applied for approval in Europe and will eventually do so in the United States."b"An earlier vaccine against rotavirus, made by Wyeth, was pulled from the American market in 1999 for safety reasons. Because of this, some people will no doubt argue that by postponing approval in the United States, Glaxo is attempting to dump a possibly unsafe product in the third world. The opposite is true; by rushing to offer the product in a poorer country, Glaxo is speeding the vaccine directly to where it is most needed. It's a long-overdue step that makes perfect sense."b"Worldwide, one child dies per minute because of rotavirus, which causes vomiting and diarrhea. A vaccine for rotavirus has long been near the top of the World Health Organization's wish list. Although nearly all children get the virus by age 5, better nutrition and access to emergency rehydration ensure that very few die of the disease in rich countries -- only about 20 children per year in the United States -- although the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says the illness costs America a billion dollars each year in hospitalizations and lost work time for parents. In India, by contrast, 100,000 children die of rotavirus annually, while some 1,000 children die in Mexico."b'In the past, vaccines for childhood diseases have been introduced in America and Europe, and poor countries have had to wait 15 years to get them. Today, the lag time is dropping, thanks in part to a new group called the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, which is giving the poorest countries a pot of money to buy vaccines and assuring manufacturers of a market. The time has come to offer new vaccines where the need is greatest. The precedent set by Rotarix will be valuable as vaccines for poor-country diseases like malaria become available.'b"Glaxo may also have come to Mexico because of the fate of Wyeth's RotaShield vaccine, which was pulled from the American market because it was found to cause intussusception, an intestinal obstruction, at a rate of one case for each 10,000 vaccinated children. A later study by the National Institutes of Health, however, argued that RotaShield was not responsible, but the damage had been done. Once the vaccine was deemed unsafe in the United States, it was politically impossible for Wyeth to sell it even in countries where it might have caused a handful of deaths while saving 100,000 lives."b"Glaxo officials say Rotarix is safe, and Mexico worked with drug safety authorities in Belgium, where Glaxo Biologicals is based, to strengthen the approval process it used in accepting the vaccine. The vaccine works differently than RotaShield so is unlikely to have the same problems. It has not caused intussusception in clinical trials involving 70,000 children -- the largest trials ever for a vaccine. Glaxo may have avoided the United States out of worry that the Food and Drug Administration would request an even larger clinical trial, or that the F.D.A.'s caution -- appropriate for a nation where rotavirus causes few deaths -- would have unduly influenced the decisions of countries with a very different balance of risks and benefits."b'Rotarix needs substantial continuing safety monitoring, which Glaxo is planning to do. But countries at great risk for rotavirus should not wait for American or European approval. America should not be setting the standards for diseases that cause light winds at home, but hurricanes abroad.'b'THE 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, which was be marked by ceremonies in Poland this week, is a painful reminder of how little has been learned since the Holocaust. Most obviously, bigotry and religious and ethnic violence have not been eradicated, but seem to be sharply on the rise, from Darfur to Tikrit to Tibet.'b'As for the Jews, the main targets of Nazi racism, they face a very different sort of problem today, one that is partly of their own making. Jewish organizations have pursued an effective campaign to combat bigotry through a combination of protest and education, hoping to shame wrongdoers and encourage the next generation to shed old prejudices. And yet, as they look around, they see a world increasingly hostile to them and to Israel. It is time Jews recognize that the old strategies no longer work.'b'Jewish organizations and advocates of Israel fail to grasp that they are no longer viewed as the voice of the disenfranchised. Rather, they are seen as a global Goliath, close to the seats of power and capable of influencing policies and damaging reputations. As such, their efforts to raise the alarm increasingly appear as bullying.'b'The most recent example came earlier this month, after Prince Harry of Britain was photographed attending a private masquerade party in a World War II-era German uniform and Nazi armband. His appearance touched off a frenzy in the news media. The prince was called insensitive to Jewish suffering, with some suggesting that he was infected with anti-Jewish bigotry lurking in the genes of the royal family. One protester, Rabbi Marvin Hier of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, called on the prince to make amends by traveling to Poland for the Auschwitz ceremony.'b'This is exactly the wrong approach. By playing the Holocaust card against Harry, Jewish critics deflected attention from how Harry had insulted the memory of the millions of Britons who suffered during World War II; they also risked squandering a diminishing supply of hard-won moral capital better spent in the fight against terrorism and the rise in Holocaust denial and anti-Semitism.'b'The condemnations of Prince Harry were hardly a new phenomenon. In recent decades, a long list of religious, political and cultural luminaries, from Jesse Jackson to Marlon Brando to Dolly Parton, have found themselves forced to apologize for thoughtless remarks that were taken to be anti-Semitic. No doubt, some calls for contrition were justified. But the eagerness of Jewish civil-rights groups to play watchdog, and their tendency to err on the side of zealousness, leads them all too frequently to blur distinctions between real bigotry and the verbal blunders by well-meaning individuals.Take the case of Mr. Brando, who in 1996 broke into tears in a news conference as he tried to quell the uproar over his on-air comments to Larry King that "Hollywood is run by Jews" who "should have a greater sensitivity about the issue of people who are suffering." Lost in the brouhaha was the actor\'s long commitment to opposing anti-Semitism and his support of Israel, which dated back to his involvement in "A Flag Is Born," the 1946 play that served as an impassioned plea for a Jewish homeland.'b'In Prince Harry\'s case, the miscalculation is all the more egregious because it comes after a bruising year in which the bankruptcy of the old strategy has become glaringly apparent. In several recent controversies -- including the debates over Mel Gibson\'s "Passion of the Christ," the role of neoconservatives in promoting the invasion of Iraq war, and the public celebration of Christmas -- we have seen a new willingness, whether by borderline bigots, respected celebrities or policymakers, to express aloud ideas about Jews and Israel that until recently were taboo. The protests by anti-Semitism watchdogs did nothing but embolden these people.'b'This trend would only have been reinforced by the spectacle of a bullied prince roaming the grounds of a former concentration camp, doing his best to appear suitably remorseful. (Fortunately, Prince Harry decided against attending the ceremony, though a future visit to the death camp is apparently under consideration.)'b'For more than half a century, Auschwitz has rightly stood at the heart of virtually every moral argument put forth by spokesmen for the Jewish community, a powerful testament to the consequences of otherwise decent people remaining silent in the face of evil. Yet this legacy is in peril, threatened by an increasing reliance on raw political muscle over appeals to conscience.'b'As the world recalls the horrors and liberation of Auschwitz, Jewish organizations and advocates for Israel should remember that "speaking truth to power" does not work when you are seen as the powerful one.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Ami Eden is the national editor of The Forward.'b"F.Scott Fitzgerald said there are no second acts in American life. That's got to be one of the most untrue truisms ever uttered. As everybody from Donald Trump to Ozzy Osborne can tell you, there are nothing but second acts in American life."b'The Bush administration has started its second act, and it is striking how different this one feels. When you ask senior officials to remember the first term, they remember it as a time of war. There was the attack of Sept. 11. There were invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. There was the political war of the 2004 campaign.'b"That was a time when pieces of things were cast asunder. Senior Bush officials talk about this term as a time when pieces of things will be put back together. There's almost a springlike, postwar mood."b'The campaign is over. Afghanistan had its election. Even in Iraq, there will probably not be any more big military assaults like the one in Falluja. Now the Iraqis will be making most of the key decisions, and Americans will, with any luck, do more training and less fighting.'b"One of the effects of this new attitude is that the administration is less fixated upon the Middle East. There is a much broader global perspective. In candid, sprawling conversations, officials are much quicker to talk about Latin America, and the different challenges presented by the (bad) situation in Venezuela and the (promising) one in Brazil. There is more talk of our relationship with India. There is much more discussion of the need to repel China's efforts to reduce American influence in the Pacific."b'The administration has certainly not forgotten the Middle East. Mahmoud Abbas is doing a great job, everybody says. There might be a cease-fire between Israel and the Palestinians next month. Senior officials understand that State should send somebody to monitor agreements between the two sides to prevent miscommunications. But there is a clear intent not to let the big dogs like Condoleezza Rice and Stephen Hadley get transfixed by the process.'b'The new mood has also brought a resurgence of soft-power thinking. Administration officials are trying to think big about what institutions can be used to implement the freedom agenda the president sketched out in his Inaugural Address.'b'When you ask exactly which institutions need to be created, they get more than a little vague, but you get a clear sense of their preferences. Bush folks have not developed any new love for the Security Council. Instead, they are much more interested in working with regional groups, like the Organization of American States.'b"Their favorite kinds of institutions are the kinds they created in response to the tsunami disaster: the kind with no permanent offices and no permanent staff, the kind that is created to address a discrete problem and then disappear when the problem is over. The phrase for this is coalitions of the willing. If you think the Iraq situation soured the Bush team on these sorts of coalitions, you're wrong."b'The foreign policy of the Bush officials is beginning to sound more like compassionate conservatism all the time. To win the war of ideology against radical Islam, they want to put much more emphasis on global trade. This strikes me as unpromising; if trade could loosen up radical regimes, Saudi Arabia would be Switzerland. But they really mean it.'b'They also really mean it when they talk about getting education ministers more involved in global summits and radically transforming our public diplomacy. They mean it when they talk about the anti-AIDS program as a way to use humanitarian relief to build new government institutions and change the character of regimes.'b"There's so much soft-power talk in the Bush administration these days it would make Kofi Annan queasy."b"But it's part of a real feeling of rebirth. For the moment, the State Department types are happy with their new secretary. I ran into a senior Pentagon official coming out of the State Department building -- a metaphor for the reduced hostilities between those two agencies. It's hard now even to see a split, at least within the administration, between so-called realists and so-called neocons."b'People are even tired of fighting with Europe. "Let\'s stop analyzing the relationship," somebody pleaded in a fit of exhaustion.'b'Whether this compassionate second-term agenda can really last is another question. Events in Iraq tomorrow and in Iran later on may make these days look like a sabbatical. But new beginnings are fun.'b'They beat old beginnings every time.   Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com'b'Lawrence Reuter was not a New York household name before last week. And he probably wishes that were still so. Mr. Reuter, president of New York City Transit, had his unhappy moment in the spotlight when he told the city that because of a fire, two major subway lines, the A and the C, would be out of commission for three to five years. As almost anyone but Mr. Reuter could have predicted, that set off panic in the neighborhoods where hundreds of thousands of people use the lines to get to work. He has since clarified his estimate to a matter of months and, we hope, learned a lesson in the importance of accurate communication with his customers.'b"But there is a far larger and scarier issue facing the city's subways than public relations, and telling Mr. Reuter to fix it is useless. The problem must be placed squarely in the lap of the man with the power and the responsibility: Gov. George Pataki."b"Years of underfinancing and borrowing have left the system on the threshold of a crisis bigger than anything since its nadir in the late 70's and early 80's. If the fire last week served any purpose, it was to remind the city how vulnerable its network of subways is to mishap or worse. The relay signals that burned and need replacing are Depression-era. Computerizing the whole system will be so costly and take so long that it seems more like a dream than a solution. The urgent challenge now is much more basic: to get the financing from Albany to save what we've got."b"Like all too many things in New York, the regional mass transit system is organized in a way that makes it hard for the public to figure out who's really in charge. But it's a creation of the state, and run by officials answering to the governor. Mr. Pataki has always reduced his responsibility, although this year he did propose modest increases in vehicle fees and the mortgage recording tax to help pay the transit bills. It's simply not enough, particularly for a governor who denounces fare increases."b"Pretending that service cuts and more efficiency will save the day, Mr. Pataki has lopped off more than $2 billion from the authority's already scaled-back five-year plan to maintain the system. Even with that penury, he leaves much of the plan without financing."b"In the 1980's, when the system was teetering on ruin, the governor, the mayor and city business leaders all pitched in to create a rescue plan. That needs to happen again, beginning with a concerted effort that's coupled with the offer of sacrifice. Mayor Michael Bloomberg can't effectively demand money to rebuild the subways at a time when he's also pushing for $300 million in state funds and committing another $300 million in city funds for an unnecessary football stadium in Manhattan. Mr. Bloomberg should get his priorities straight. And as much as we agree with the mayor about the importance of extending subway service to the Far West Side of Manhattan to spur development, it's a plan that has to take a back seat to saving the existing network."b"Business leaders should tell the governor what new taxes they would be willing to accept to save public transit. We like one idea being floated by the Partnership for New York City, which would build on London's model of imposing a surcharge on anyone driving into the city's business district. The plan could generate up to $390 million by taxing those who drive private vehicles below 60th Street during working hours."b"Of course, the M.T.A. must help itself by cutting its administrative costs and holding down other expenses. Its idea of selling naming rights to subway stations sounds iffy, but worth exploring. None of this should detract from the obligation Mr. Pataki has to keep New York's economic engine running by protecting mass transit. The spotlight is on him, and he cannot hide from it."b"Nobody can really expect Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, or any mayor with an eye trained on upcoming elections, to do the really hard stuff in the annual budget. So it should come as no surprise that Mr. Bloomberg's $48.3 billion budget for the next fiscal year does not close firehouses or raise property taxes, things he did so bravely earlier in his term."b"This time the mayor was more upbeat, issuing a kind of fiscal sigh of relief and working hard to make it all sound like good news. Tax revenues are up, real estate is booming and the tourists are back, he said this week in a presentation that showcased his command of charts and numbers, skills he acquired in his years as a C.E.O. The net result, he said, is that the city probably has enough money to balance this year's budget without raising taxes or firing people or cutting programs."b'One uncomfortable truth went unmentioned. Using all the extra money to plug this year\'s holes means that the structural deficit could resurface in the next budget. By then, of course, the election will have already occurred. But the most obvious signal that the mayor is running for re-election, beyond his cautious optimism, was his insistence on another $400 property tax rebate to homeowners. That will come in the form of a check with his name on it, and nothing really says "vote for me" like a big (and legal) check or even a promise of a check from a politician who wants another term.'b"As nice as those rebates are, however, they come at the expense of other needs -- like a larger city contribution to repairing the transit system, whose infrastructure, as riders of the A and C lines learned firsthand last week, is old and fragile. The rebates also send the wrong signal to Albany, where state lawmakers must determine how much to contribute to the city's needs."b'The mayor\'s financial package also rests on several shaky presumptions that, he concedes, could wreak havoc in the bottom line if they turn out to be wrong. For one thing, he assumes truckloads of cash from Washington and Albany. In Washington, President Bush is vowing austerity. In Albany, Gov. George E. Pataki\'s new budget skimps on New York aid so much that Mr. Bloomberg, who likes to keep his disagreements with his fellow Republicans quiet, confessed publicly last week that he was "deeply disappointed" in the governor\'s efforts. In Bloomberg-speak, this means he\'s in high dudgeon.'b"The mayor also made a small but pointed criticism of the governor's choices in tax cuts for this year's state budget. Mr. Pataki wants to end the income tax surcharge on people making more than $150,000 a year. Mr. Bloomberg says that if any tax should disappear, it should be the sales tax on clothing under $110 that hurts the poor and the middle class. Mr. Bloomberg wins that argument, in terms of both compassion and business competitiveness."b"The mayor also wants the state to contribute more money to city schools than the paltry sum Mr. Pataki is offering. With education funds for the city still part of a court case, the governor's contribution will surely have to increase substantially. But the same court could also demand a lot more money from the city than Mr. Bloomberg has estimated in this new budget."b"Finally, labor contracts could dig new holes in the mayor's financial plan, especially if state arbitrators give too much to workers whose contracts have made it to the courtrooms. They should pattern their decisions on the DC37 contract negotiated earlier in the Bloomberg administration with most nonuniformed workers, which seems fair to both the unions and the rest of the city's taxpayers."b'New York started a disastrous national trend when it passed the draconian Rockefeller drug laws 32 years ago. These laws erased the common-sense distinction between petty drug users and kingpins, sending even first-time offenders to jail for periods of 15 years to life. The laws drove up the inmate population markedly, committed the state to spend billions to build and run new prisons, and did nothing to curb the drug trade.'b'Prosecutors who rightly viewed the laws as impractical and unfair began to get around them by never bringing novice offenders to trial at all, instead diverting them to drug treatment and other rehabilitation programs. The Pataki administration has also developed forward-looking programs in prisons and has begun to stress post-prison strategies that help people who get out of jail to actually stay out.'b"Gov. George E. Pataki took credit for this shift in his State of the State address. He told his listeners that the prison population had dropped by about 8,000 people, or 11 percent of the total, over the last five years. But county officials and prison rights advocates noted a glaring discrepancy between the governor's sentiments and the actual behavior of the State Commission of Correction, an agency with great influence over prison policy in New York and one that the governor essentially controls."b'Founded in the late 19th century to promote humane treatment at state prisons, the commission has historically concerned itself with training and administrative issues. But recently it has been pressing counties around the state to build new local jails.'b"A recent study released by a watchdog group, the New York State Network for Jail Alternatives and Safer Communities, asserts that since 1995, 36 of New York's counties have built, are constructing or are considering new jails -- thanks partly to pressure from the state."b'This has made several counties unhappy. They do not believe they should be asked to build new jails while the prison population is declining. On Long Island, Suffolk County has recently sued the commission, accusing it of arbitrary and capricious enforcement of state law in a dispute over jail expansion. Tompkins County refused to expand its jail in a manner suggested by the state, and other counties are poised to follow suit.'b'The counties argue further that they should not be spending millions of dollars on jails at a time when the country as a whole is moving away from mass incarceration and toward rehabilitation, job training and other forms of nonjail approaches. Their complaints make sense; local jail populations are often made up mainly of mentally ill persons and other low-level offenders who would not be in jail at all if they could afford bail. Some critics of the building plan fear that the state is preparing to shift responsibility for incarceration to the local level.'b'Finally, the counties argue that state officials who got into the prison business in the post-Rockefeller years may be assuming that jail and prison populations can only go up, when in fact, as Mr. Pataki himself noted, they can go down as well.'b'The state should take these criticisms seriously. It should also make sure that it is not pressing the counties to build massive new jails that local sheriffs will then feel compelled to keep full.'b'Mr. Pataki should use his influence to straighten out this dispute. He should also make sure that the counties understand and have access to the methods that have successfully reduced the state prison population.'b'People in the Democratic Party who have been focused on social issues like abortion and gay rights were devastated by the results of the November election, and they have been wondering how to pursue their concerns in the inhospitable environment of the new Bush administration. Last week, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton helped define a promising path.'b'Speaking on Monday to about 1,000 abortion rights supporters in Albany, Mrs. Clinton did two important things. First, at a moment when women\'s reproductive freedom is under severe assault, she firmly restated her support for Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion nationwide. What made Mrs. Clinton\'s speech noteworthy, however, was her second, complementary tack. Without retreating on principle, she deftly shifted the focus of the abortion discussion to where there is the broadest agreement, and where President Bush\'s policy failure is most apparent -- namely, abortion prevention. Echoing her husband\'s call to make abortion "safe, legal and rare," the senator said that abortion "represents a sad, even tragic choice to many, many women," and that "the best way to reduce the number of abortions is to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies in the first place."'b'This is sensitive political terrain, and Mrs. Clinton surprised, even offended some in her audience by voicing respect for those who oppose legalized abortion based on sincere religious or moral beliefs. Her critics argued that while the sentiment sounded fine, the reality is that most organized abortion opponents also oppose greater access to birth control, including backup emergency contraception. Even if that is true, it misses the point. The target of Mrs. Clinton\'s argument is not anti-abortion activists, but the broader public. Without giving ground on basic principles, she was appropriating the values issue for Democrats who support abortion rights -- challenging "people of good faith" on both sides of the debate to find "common ground" in pursuing the shared goal of reducing the number of abortions.'b"The anti-abortion movement began gaining political traction when it focused on fairly narrow issues that most Americans find troubling -- like parental notification and so-called partial-birth abortion. Meanwhile, it shifted attention away from President Bush's opposition to things that Americans almost universally favor and which are most critical for women trying to control their reproductive destiny, like ready access to birth control and comprehensive family planning. Mrs. Clinton wisely seeks to turn the argument around."b'On the same day Mrs. Clinton spoke, the new Democratic minority leader of the Senate, Harry Reid, introduced the Prevention First Act, a modestly revised version of a bill introduced in the last session, which sets forth a detailed agenda for addressing the problem of unintended pregnancies. It calls for medically accurate sex education, including but not limited to abstinence counseling; expanded access to family planning services for low-income women; easing the availability of morning-after emergency contraception for all women, including victims of sexual assault; and putting an end to the discriminatory practice of health care plans of covering prescription drugs like Viagra, but not prescription contraceptives for women.'b"These are practical steps for cutting the nation's abortion rate. Perversely, they are also steps President Bush refuses to take. Thanks to Mrs. Clinton's frank talk, now everyone should know that."b"FOURTEEN years after one of the most controversial double-murder convictions in Long Island history, the Martin Tankleff case threatens to further tarnish Suffolk County's justice system."b"Hearings on Mr. Tankleff's effort to overturn his convictions in the murder of his parents, Arlene and Seymour Tankleff, have been going on in Riverhead since July 19. Both sides are expected to complete their arguments when the proceedings resume this week. After weighing the briefs, Judge Stephen L. Braslow of Suffolk County Court will then have to decide whether to reject Mr. Tankleff's arguments, reverse the conviction and order a new trial, or cut loose the wrongfully convicted man."b'Either way, because of the questions raised at the hearings, the case is bound to continue reverberating.'b"Close observers, however, agree that Judge Braslow will be hard-pressed to find convincing grounds upon which to deny Mr. Tankleff's motion for a new trial. Mr. Tankleff's newly discovered evidence has been far more extensive than what county prosecutors used in 1990 to gain his conviction and sentence of 50 years to life."b"But here's the question: Given all the new evidence that's been uncovered, why hasn't the prosecutor moved in the interests of justice to reverse the conviction and convene a new grand jury?"b"It started with a 911 call. On the morning of Sept. 7, 1988, the Suffolk police responded to a frantic emergency call from an upscale house in Belle Terre, on Long Island's North Shore. They arrived to find the caller, 17-year-old Martin Tankleff, dazed after waking up and finding his adoptive parents covered with blood. Bludgeoned and nearly decapitated, Arlene Tankleff was already dead. Her horribly wounded husband, Seymour Tankleff, was in a coma and would die a few weeks later."b"Mr. Tankleff, a slightly built youth, had no criminal history or record of mental illness. He claimed that his father's estranged business partner, Jerard Steuerman, who described himself as Long Island's bagel baron, owed the Tankleffs hundreds of thousands of dollars and had been the last one to leave a high-stakes card game at the house earlier that morning."b"Suffolk County detectives took the youth in for questioning. When he didn't confess, one of the detectives, K. James McCready, pretended to receive a telephone call telling him that Seymour Tankleff had revived under adrenaline to blame his son for the attack. Shortly afterward, the younger Mr. Tankleff broke down under the pressure and confessed."b"There was no taped or signed confession. Martin Tankleff quickly recanted his statement and proclaimed his innocence. But the authorities wouldn't let go."b"Mr. Tankleff's lawyer at the time pointed out that Suffolk County law enforcement was under federal and state investigation for corruption and other misconduct. The State Investigation Commission was targeting prosecutors and police for botching major cases by, among other things, coercing false confessions and engaging in cover-ups. The commission's 1989 report also said that Mr. McCready had committed perjury in an earlier homicide case (which he denied). But the trial judge kept these facts out of the trial."b'Mr. Steuerman, the business partner, faked his own death after the attacks, fled to California and assumed a false identity. But the police never considered him a suspect. Mr. Tankleff was convicted and sent to prison for the rest of his life. Had a capital punishment law been on the books at the time, he could have been condemned to death.'b"The case might have ended there, except that Mr. Tankleff attracted some top-flight legal assistance and fought to prove his innocence. He appealed to the State Court of Appeals and even to the United States Supreme Court but didn't prevail. The case languished. Mr. Tankleff started losing his hair; his youth was gone."b"Then a miracle happened. Jay Salpeter, a retired New York police homicide detective, was hired by Mr. Tankleff's lawyers to investigate the case. Mr. Salpeter obtained a written statement from a career criminal, Glenn Harris, that he had driven his longtime crime partner, Joseph Creedon, and an acquaintance Peter Kent to the Tankleff house that night. Mr. Salpeter also discovered that another witness had already come forward to say that Mr. Creedon had said he was involved in the Tankleff murders. This witness, along with Mr. Tankleff and Mr. Harris, passed polygraph examinations, and others substantiated their accounts."b"Mr. Tankleff's lawyers shared this new information with the Suffolk County district attorney, Thomas J. Spota. When Mr. Spota did not investigate, they filed a motion seeking an evidentiary hearing in county court."b"When Judge Braslow began to hear evidence in open court, it seemed that there would be a quick end to the matter. But the district attorney refused to grant Mr. Harris, the getaway driver, any immunity from prosecution for his testimony. As a result, Mr. Harris declined to testify. The judge also refused to grant immunity and even forbade Mr. Tankleff's lawyer Bruce A. Barket to speak with Mr. Harris."b"But instead of simply hinging its case upon Mr. Harris's testimony, the Tankleff defense team has unleashed a cascade of new evidence, none of it effectively rebutted or discredited by the prosecution. Testimony from several witnesses has filled in more details about the alleged murder plot and suggested a cover-up by the Suffolk authorities."b'Mr. Creedon, Mr. Harris and Mr. Kent have denied carrying out the Tankleff murders.'b"Witnesses and court records have established that Mr. Steuerman's son, Todd, was associated with Mr. Creedon in drug trafficking. Mr. Creedon has given sworn statements that Todd Steuerman shot him after he refused to cut out Martin Tankleff's tongue for Jerard Steuerman. Several witnesses have testified that the Steuermans' bagel store was used for drug dealing. Todd Steuerman was arrested and went to prison as a result of some of this activity, but his criminal background was kept out of the original Tankleff trial."b"Some of the most potent evidence presented has involved Mr. Spota himself. Before he was elected district attorney as a Democrat in 2001, Mr. Spota represented Mr. McCready, the detective who obtained the Tankleff confession, both when he faced criminal charges and when he was under state investigation for perjury. In the 1980's, Mr. Spota also represented some police officers who were convicted of drug offenses. After the latest hearings started, Mr. Spota belatedly disclosed that his law firm had defended Todd Steuerman when he was charged with dealing drugs out of his father's bagel store. Yet Mr. Spota has repeatedly refused to recuse himself in the case or to yield to a special prosecutor."b"It's true that when someone tries to get his conviction reversed, the burden is on the accused, not the prosecutor, to prove his case. Nor is Mr. Spota under a legal obligation to help Mr. Tankleff get a new trial. But trying to stonewall Mr. Tankleff's fight for justice is no way to get at the truth. And no matter what Judge Braslow decides about the future of Martin Tankleff, the questions that have been raised about police interrogation practices and Mr. Spota's ties to people involved in this case won't go away."b'Long Island Scott Christianson, a former executive assistant to the New York State director of criminal justice, is the author of "Innocent: Inside Wrongful Conviction Cases."'b"EVER since last Sunday, when a fire, possibly set by a homeless person, disrupted service on the A and C subway lines, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has been taking a lot of heat. Everyone's complaining. First, came the shock over how vulnerable the subway's signaling system is. Then there were the cries of disbelief at how long the repairs would take."b"But what all these criticisms miss is the underlying financial predicament that has deprived New York's subway system of money needed for maintenance and improvements. And the situation is unlikely to improve with a Republican in Albany and another one in the White House."b"For most of its 100-year history, the subway has experienced financial crises that have resulted in deferred maintenance and impaired passenger service. New York's first subway, which entered service in 1904, was financed by a public agency and leased and operated by the Interborough Rapid Transit Company. In 1913, a second firm, the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company (later Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit) signed a contract to run a subway system. But rising inflation after World War I caused both companies to teeter in and out of bankruptcy."b'In 1932, the city started its own subway network, the Independent Subway System, to compete with the two private companies, which were widely detested for their poor service. In 1940, after the Great Depression had further devastated the subways, the City of New York unified the three networks into a single, municipally run system.'b"Unification did not end the subway's financial troubles, however, and in 1953, the state, looking to end ever-growing subsidies and eliminate direct municipal operation of the system, created the New York City Transit Authority. Determined to establish businesslike management of the subway system, the Transit Authority permitted fare increases and service reductions."b"In the 1970's and 1980's, post-Vietnam inflation, along with competition from automobiles, created another financial crisis. From a peak of two billion riders in 1947, rapid transit ridership fell to less than one billion in the early 1990's. By then, the trains were mechanically unreliable, the stations dilapidated and the system crime-ridden. The economic boom at the end of the century with the accompanying rise in revenue that could go to the system helped, but with the slump after 9/11, the strains in the subway's financing became more apparent."b"But it isn't just the economy; federal policy is at fault, too. Compared with every other major rapid transit line in the world, New York's subway receives surprisingly little aid from the national government. The Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964 initiated federal financing for the construction of subways and light rail systems. But because federal subsidies have promoted the construction of new lines rather than the rehabilitation of old ones, New York City has had to maintain its aging subway system largely by itself."b"Since 1982, the Transit Authority (now an arm of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority) has used state-issued bonds to revitalize the subways by replacing or overhauling more than 6,000 cars, rehabilitating more than 140 stations and rebuilding main-line tracks. The signaling system needed attention, too, but money was limited and used for shiny new trains. The authority had hoped that more noticeable improvements would increase ridership and, thus, revenue, which would allow it to issue more bonds. But that didn't happen; ridership didn't rise as much as expected."b"The only thing that is surprising about this crisis is that it surprises us. The subway's chronic financial problems have never been fixed, and its renewal is now imperiled by fiscal pressures facing a city government that has greater needs and yet commands fewer resources than before."b"Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who rides the subways himself, has been trying to obtain more state money, but Albany has been of little help. Gov. George E. Pataki's newly proposed budget was a disappointment for the city, and the subway's financial pressures will be only increased by his administration's preferences for commuter lines that serve the suburbs where Republican voters live. And these financial pressures will not be relieved by the Bush administration, which makes selective use of its small-government rhetoric to justify its disdain for big cities with a majority of Democratic voters."b'So for now, it all boils down to this: the New York subway system will be forced to chug along, and straphangers will have to deal with it, just as they have for the last century.'b'The City Clifton Hood, a history professor at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, is the author of "722 Miles: The Building of the Subways and How They Transformed New York."'b'To the list of the unforeseen hazards that seem to plague the information age, we can now add another: "drunk dialing."'b'This late-night cellular faux pas joins such exalted company as the "mistaken dial" (when your mobile phone, inadvertently prompted, dials a number in your address book by mistake) and the annoying ring tone that can interrupt big job interviews or Communion service.'b'But unlike its predecessors, drunk dialing usually limits itself to times long after the close of business and beyond the daily commute. It is in those dark hours of late night and wee hours of early morn, when most people have retired their cellphones for overnight charging, that intoxicated revelers flip open their cellphones and dial into regret.'b'A 30-year-old writer stumbled into Piazza Navona last year after a four-course Italian meal and six glasses of Brunello. Armed with a global cellphone -- the better to make calls to headquarters in New York -- he decided to call one of his bosses to proclaim his adoration for la dolce vita. "Dude," he slurred onto his boss\'s voice mail, "I just wanted to tell you that I\'m in Rome right now," more slurring, "and I am loving life." Click.'b'Too often, the call is to an ex, usually to pronounce loudly that the caller is over the breakup. Or to authority figures, including parents. My sister Elizabeth reached rock bottom when she dialed our dad at 3 a.m. on a weekend night out.'b'Last month -- after 95 percent of respondents in a survey of some 400 of its customers admitted that they drunk-dial -- Virgin Mobile started offering a service to its Australian customers prone to "dialing under the influence." For a small fee, subscribers can enter a three-digit number and then the number they want their phone to be blocked from dialing. The ban lasts until 6 o\'clock the following morning.'b"People who know people with a drunk dialing problem often end their Saturday nights running interference for their friends. I have been asked on more than one occasion to hold a cellphone hostage once intoxication devours its owner's better judgment. But -- like most people in that less than sober situation -- I usually cave in to pleas for its release."b"Drunk dialers can be pushy -- not to mention indiscriminate. They call anyone who might answer, leave messages for those who don't and continue to plumb the entries in their phone books until they are finally greeted with a sleepy, oftentimes cranky voice. In the sober light of day, some try deleting the phone numbers of people they want to avoid calling, only to learn that there are some digits even a few martinis won't let you forget."b"The mixture of cellphones and alcohol also increases the unfortunate chance of accidentally rousing a boss or a landlord whose name happens to alphabetize in proximity to a more personal acquaintance. A photographer friend once misfired a racy text message intended for his girlfriend to a rock star whose phone number he had stored while making arrangements for a photographic session. (Inebriated text-messaging does at least have the advantage of confronting offenders the next morning, as they come face-to-face with their own blunders. Jumbled letters that seemed to form a meaningful sentence at 3 a.m. stare back at them like a surgeon general's warning about excessive alcohol consumption.)"b"Drunk dialing has grown so rampant now that, just as abuses of cellphones prompted a new code of ethics for public conversations and new laws for road travel, it has elicited various tips and cures. A Web site called SlackerTown.com offers a phone number that people can call to leave their drunk-dialed message, which is recorded and placed on the Web for everyone's listening pleasure."b'Another suggestion posted on the social networking site Tribe.net advises those with a predilection for drunk dialing to write down phone numbers they are prone to calling, delete them before going out, and then put them back into their phone the next morning.'b"Obviously, the real problem here is not with gadgets of instant gratification, but with consuming too much alcohol. It's probably not a good sign that most of the proposals for reform focus on the technology, not on the drinking. But until we manage to end inebriation, we can at least work on protecting the rest of the world's right to uninterrupted sleep."b''b'Correction Appended'b''b"SURELY some bright bulb from the Council on Foreign Relations in New York or the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton has already remarked that President Bush's inaugural address 10 days ago is the fourth corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. No? So many savants and not one peep out of the lot of them? Really?"b'The president had barely warmed up: "There is only one force of history that can break the reign of hatred and resentment, and expose the pretensions of tyrants and that is the force of human freedom. The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands. America\'s vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one" when -- bango! -- I flashed back 100 years and 47 days on the dot to another president. George W. Bush was speaking, but the voice echoing inside my skull -- a high-pitched voice, an odd voice, coming from such a great big hairy bear of a man -- was that of the president who dusted off Monroe\'s idea and dragged it into the 20th century.'b'"The steady aim of this nation, as of all enlightened nations," said the Echo, "should be to strive to bring ever nearer the day when there shall prevail throughout the world the peace of justice. Tyrants and oppressors have many times made a wilderness and called it peace. The peace of tyrannous terror, the peace of craven weakness, the peace of injustice, all these should be shunned as we shun unrighteous war. The right of freedom and the responsibility for the exercise of that right cannot be divorced."'b"Theodore Roosevelt! -- Dec. 4, 1904, announcing to Congress the first corollary to the Monroe Doctrine -- an item I had deposited in the memory bank and hadn't touched since I said goodbye to graduate school in the mid-1950's!"b'In each case what I was hearing was the usual rustle and flourish of the curtains opening upon a grandiloquent backdrop. But if there was one thing I learned before departing academe and heading off wayward into journalism, it was that these pretty preambles to major political messages, all this solemn rhetorical throat-clearing -- the parts always omitted from the textbooks as superfluous -- are inevitably what in fact gives the game away.'b'Theodore Roosevelt\'s corollary to President James Monroe\'s famous doctrine of 1823 proclaimed that not only did America have the right, \xc3\xa0 la Monroe, to block European attempts to re-colonize any of the Western Hemisphere, it also had the right to take over and shape up any nation in the hemisphere guilty of "chronic wrongdoing" or uncivilized behavior that left it "impotent," powerless to defend itself against aggressors from the Other Hemisphere, meaning mainly England, France, Spain, Germany and Italy.'b"The immediate problem was that the Dominican Republic had just reneged on millions in European loans so flagrantly that an Italian warship had turned up just off the harbor of Santo Domingo. Roosevelt sent the Navy down to frighten off the Italians and all other snarling Europeans. Then the United States took over the Dominican customs operations and debt management and by and by the whole country, eventually sending in the military to run the place. We didn't hesitate to occupy Haiti and Nicaragua, either."b"Back in 1823, Europeans had ridiculed Monroe and his doctrine. Baron de Tuyll, the Russian minister to Washington, said Americans were too busy hard-grabbing and making money to ever stop long enough to fight, even if they had the power, which they didn't. But by the early 1900's it was a different story."b'First there was T.R. And then came Senator Henry Cabot Lodge. In 1912 Japanese businessmen appeared to be on the verge of buying vast areas of Mexico\'s Baja California bordering our Southern California. Lodge drew up, and the Senate ratified, what became known as the Lodge Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. The United States would allow no foreign interests, no Other Hemispheroids of any description, to give any foreign government "practical power of control" over territory in This Hemisphere. The Japanese government immediately denied having any connection with the tycoons, and the Baja deals, if any, evaporated.'b"Then, in 1950, George Kennan, the diplomat who had developed the containment theory of dealing with the Soviet Union after the Second World War, toured Latin America and came away alarmed by Communist influence in the region. So he devised the third corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. The Kennan Corollary said that Communism was simply a tool of Soviet national power. The United States had no choice, under the mandates of the Monroe Doctrine, but to eradicate Communist activity wherever it turned up in Latin America by any means necessary, even if it meant averting one's eyes from dictatorial regimes whose police force did everything but wear badges saying Chronic Wrongdoing."b'The historian Gaddis Smith summarizes the Lodge and Kennan Corollaries elegantly and economically in "The Last Years of the Monroe Doctrine, 1945-1993." Now, Gaddis Smith was a graduate-schoolmate of mine and very much a star even then and has remained a star historian ever since. So do I dare suggest that in this one instance, in a brilliant career going on 50 years now, that Gaddis Smith might have been wrong? that 1945 to 1993 were not the last years of the Monroe Doctrine? that the doctrine was more buff and boisterous than it has ever been 10 days ago, Jan. 20, 2005?'b"But before we go forward, let's take one more step back in time and recall the curious case of Antarctica. In 1939 Franklin Roosevelt authorized the first official United States exploration of the South Pole, led by Admiral Richard E. Byrd. The expedition was scientific -- but also military. The Japanese and the Germans were known to be rooting about in the ice down there, as were the Russians, the British, the Chileans, the Argentines, all of them yapping and stepping on one another's heels. Gradually it dawned on the whole bunch of them: at the South Pole the hemispheres got awfully narrow. In fact, there was one point, smaller than a dime, if you could ever find it, where there were no more Hemispheres at all. Finally, everybody in essence just gave up and forgot about it. It was so cold down there, you couldn't shove a shell into the gullet of a piece of artillery or a missile into a silo."b'Ah, yes, a missile. On the day in November 1961, when the Air Force achieved the first successful silo launching of an intercontinental ballistic missile, the SM-80, the Western Hemisphere part of the Monroe Doctrine ceased to mean anything at all -- while the ideas behind it began to mean everything in the world.'b"At bottom, the notion of a sanctified Western Hemisphere depended upon its separation from the rest of the world by two vast oceans, making intrusions of any sort obvious. The ICBM's -- soon the Soviet Union and other countries had theirs -- shrank the world in a military sense. Then long-range jet aircraft, satellite telephones, television and the Internet all, in turn, did the job socially and commercially. By Mr. Bush's Inauguration Day, the Hemi in Hemisphere had long since vanished, leaving the Monroe Doctrine with -- what? -- nothing but a single sphere which is to say, the entire world."b'For the mission -- the messianic mission! -- has never shrunk in the slightest which brings us back to the pretty preambles and the solemn rhetorical throat-clearing the parts always omitted from the textbooks as superfluous. "America\'s vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one," President Bush said. He added, "From the day of our founding, we have proclaimed that every man and woman on this earth has rights, and dignity, and matchless value, because they bear the image of the maker of heaven and earth."'b'David Gelernter, the scientist and writer, argues that "Americanism" is a fundamentally religious notion shared by an incredibly varied population from every part of the globe and every conceivable background, all of whom feel that they have arrived, as Ronald Reagan put it, at a "shining city upon a hill." God knows how many of them just might agree with President Bush -- and Theodore Roosevelt -- that it is America\'s destiny and duty to bring that salvation to all mankind.'b'Op-Ed Contributor Tom Wolfe is the author, most recently, of "I Am Charlotte Simmons."'b"Correction:  February 4, 2005, Friday  An Op-Ed article on Sunday about President Bush's inauguration speech misstated part of the history of intercontinental ballistic missiles. The silo launching of a solid-fuel SM-80 Minuteman missile in November 1961 was not the first of an ICBM; a less practical liquid-fuel Titan missile was launched from a silo earlier that year."b'Davos, Switzerland'b"One of the most striking things I've found in Europe these past two weeks is the absolute conviction that the Bush team is just itching to invade Iran to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons. Psssssssst. Come over here. A little closer. Now listen: Don't tell the Iranians this, but the Bush team isn't going to be invading anybody. We don't have enough troops to finish the job in Iraq. Our military budget is completely maxed out. We couldn't invade Grenada today. If Iran is to forgo  developing nuclear weapons, it will  only  be because the Europeans' diplomatic approach manages to persuade Tehran to do so."b'For two years the Europeans have been telling the Bush administration that its use of force to  prevent states from developing nuclear weapons has been a failure in Iraq and that the Europeans have a better way - multilateral diplomacy using carrots and sticks. Well, Europe, as we say in American baseball, "You\'re up."'b'"I think this is an absolute test case for Europe\'s ability to lay out its own idea for a joint agenda with the United States to deal with a problem like Iran," said the Oxford historian Timothy Garton Ash, author of "Free World: America, Europe and the Surprising Future of the West." "O.K., we think bombing Iran is a bad idea. What is a good idea?" For the Europeans to be successful, though, Mr. Ash said, they can\'t just be offering carrots. They have to credibly convey to Iran that they will wield their own stick. They have to credibly convey that they will refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council for real sanctions, if it is unwilling to strike a deal involving nuclear inspections in return for normalized economic relations with the West.'b'"Very often there is the notion that Europe is the soft cop and the U.S. is the hard cop," Mr. Ash said. "Here it must be the other way around. Europe has to talk as credibly about using economic sanctions as some in Washington have talked about using military force."'b'The U.S. has to help. The carrot the Iranians want for abandoning their nuclear program is not just unfettered trade with the West, but some kind of assurances that if they give up their nuclear research programs, the U.S. will agree to some kind of nonaggression accord. The Bush team has been reluctant to do this, because it wants regime change in Iran. (This is a mistake; we need to concentrate for now on changing the behavior of the Iranian regime and strengthening the reformers, and letting them handle the regime change.)'b'If multilateral diplomacy is to work to defuse the brewing Iran nuclear crisis, "the Europeans have to offer a more credible stick and the Americans need to offer a more credible carrot," Mr. Ash said. But the Europeans are not good at credibly threatening force.'b"That's why this is a serious moment. If Britain, France and Germany, which are spearheading Europe's negotiations with Iran, fail, and if the U.S. use of force in Iraq (even if it succeeds) proves way too messy, expensive and dangerous to  be repeated anytime soon, where are we? Is there any other way the West can promote real reform in the Arab-Muslim world?"b'Yes, there is an alternative to the Euro-wimps and the neocons, and it is the "geo-greens." I am a geo-green. The geo-greens believe that, going forward, if we put all our focus on reducing the price of oil - by conservation, by developing renewable and alternative energies and by expanding nuclear power - we will force more reform than by any other strategy. You give me $18-a-barrel oil and I will give you political and economic reform from Algeria to Iran. All these regimes have huge population bubbles and too few jobs. They make up the gap with oil revenues. Shrink the oil revenue and they will have to open up their economies and their schools and liberate their women so that their people can compete. It is that simple.'b'By refusing to rein in U.S. energy consumption, the Bush team is not only depriving itself of the most effective lever for promoting internally driven reform in the Middle East, it is also depriving itself of any military option. As Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, points out, given today\'s tight oil market and current U.S. consumption patterns, any kind of U.S. strike on Iran, one of the world\'s major oil producers, would send the price of oil through the roof, causing real problems for our economy. "Our own energy policy has tied our hands," Mr. Haass said.'b"The Bush team's laudable desire to promote sustained reform in the Middle East will never succeed unless it moves from neocon to geo-green."b'WASHINGTON - By the time House Republicans were finished with him, Bill Clinton must have thought of a thong as a torture device.'b'For the Bush administration, it actually is.'b"A former American Army sergeant who worked as an Arabic interpreter at Gitmo has written a book pulling back the veil on the astounding ways female interrogators used a toxic combination of sex and religion to try to break Muslim detainees at the U.S. prison camp in Cuba. It's not merely disgusting. It's beyond belief."b'The Bush administration never worries about anything. But these missionaries and zealous protectors of values should be worried about the American soul. The president never mentions Osama, but he continues to use 9/11 as an excuse for American policies that bend the rules and play to our worst instincts.'b'"I have really struggled with this because the detainees, their families and much of the world will think this is a religious war based on some of the techniques used, even though it is not the case," the former sergeant, Erik R. Saar, 29, told The Associated Press. The A.P. got a manuscript of his book, deemed classified pending a Pentagon review.'b'What good is it for President Bush to speak respectfully of Islam and claim Iraq is not a religious war if the Pentagon denigrates Islamic law -- allowing its female interrogators to try to make Muslim men talk in late-night sessions featuring sexual touching, displays of fake menstrual blood, and parading in miniskirt, tight T-shirt, bra and thong underwear?'b'It\'s like a bad porn movie, "The Geneva Monologues." All S and no M.'b'The A.P. noted that "some Guant\xc3\xa1namo prisoners who have been released say they were tormented by \'prostitutes."\''b'Mr. Saar writes about what he calls "disturbing" practices during his time in Gitmo from December 2002 to June 2003, including this anecdote related by Paisley Dodds, an A.P. reporter:'b"A female military interrogator who wanted to turn up the heat on a 21-year-old Saudi detainee who allegedly had taken flying lessons in Arizona before 9/11 removed her uniform top to expose a snug T-shirt. She began belittling the prisoner -- who was praying with his eyes closed -- as she touched her breasts, rubbed them against the Saudi's back and commented on his apparent erection."b"After the prisoner spat in her face, she left the room to ask a Muslim linguist how she could break the prisoner's reliance on God. The linguist suggested she tell the prisoner that she was menstruating, touch him, and then shut off the water in his cell so he couldn't wash."b'"The concept was to make the detainee feel that after talking to her he was unclean and was unable to go before his God in prayer and gain strength," Mr. Saar recounted, adding: "She then started to place her hands in her pants as she walked behind the detainee. As she circled around him he could see that she was taking her hand out of her pants. When it became visible the detainee saw what appeared to be red blood on her hand. She said, \'Who sent you to Arizona?\' He then glared at her with a piercing look of hatred. She then wiped the red ink on his face. He shouted at the top of his lungs, spat at her and lunged forward," breaking out of an ankle shackle.'b'"He began to cry like a baby," the author wrote, adding that the interrogator\'s parting shot was: "Have a fun night in your cell without any water to clean yourself."'b'A female civilian contractor kept her "uniform" -- a thong and miniskirt -- on the back of the door of an interrogation room, the author says.'b"Who are these women? Who allows this to happen? Why don't the officers who allow it get into trouble? Why do Rummy and Paul Wolfowitz still have their jobs?"b'The military did not deny the specifics, but said the prisoners were treated "humanely" and in a way consistent "with legal obligations prohibiting torture." However the Bush White House is redefining torture these days, the point is this: Such behavior degrades the women who are doing it, the men they are doing it to, and the country they are doing it for.'b"There's nothing wrong with trying to squeeze information out of detainees. But isn't it simply more effective to throw them in isolation and try to build some sort of relationship?"b'I doubt that the thong tease works as well on inmates at Gitmo as it did on Bill Clinton in the Oval Office.'b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com'b'Earlier this month, Johnson &amp; Johnson became one of the first major American corporations to sign on for a one-year "tax holiday" -- a government-sponsored opportunity for American multinationals to bring their foreign profits back to the United States at a puny tax rate of 5.25 percent, compared with the normal corporate rate of 35 percent. Johnson &amp; Johnson intends to repatriate $11 billion. And that is just the beginning of what is shaping up to be an unprecedented government giveaway.'b"The drug giant Schering-Plough has announced a coming $9.4 billion repatriation, and Eli Lilly has announced one for $8 billion. Many other cash-rich companies, especially in pharmaceuticals and technology, are expected to follow suit. Pfizer is considering whether to repatriate $29 billion in untaxed foreign profits; Hewlett-Packard has $14.5 billion eligible for repatriation; Intel has $6 billion. By the end of 2005, an estimated $100 billion to $500 billion will have found its way home. Over the long run, Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation projects that the holiday will allow companies to avoid $3.3 billion in taxes, an estimate that many tax experts think is low."b"The nation's corporate tax rules -- combined with spotty enforcement by an underfunded and outmuscled Internal Revenue Service -- provide strong incentives for American companies to shift their profits from the United States to low-tax havens, such as Ireland and Luxembourg. Once there, the profits are allowed to grow untaxed by the United States until they are repatriated. That tax deferral is a hugely munificent gesture -- as if the country's biggest businesses had been granted their own special I.R.A.'s."b"But it wasn't enough for many companies that have piled up excess cash abroad. The Homeland Investment Coalition, a roster of dozens of America's largest corporations, lobbied vigorously -- and successfully -- for a tax holiday before deigning to repatriate their overseas profits."b'Congress\'s ostensible purpose for allowing the holiday is to unleash a flood of money for job creation, hence the name of the law that includes the holiday -- the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. But few of the approved uses for the repatriated funds -- such as debt redemption, advertising and a catchall category of "financial stabilization" -- will lead directly, if at all, to more jobs. One approved use -- the ability to spend the money to buy other companies -- would be more likely to create layoffs, as corporate acquisitions usually do.'b'Companies can also use the money to help pay legal liabilities, which could prove to be a big boon for companies like the drug maker Merck, which is sitting on some $15 billion in untaxed foreign profits and faces an estimated $18 billion in potential claims arising from the Vioxx debacle. Multinationals cannot use the repatriated profits to pay dividends to shareholders, buy back their own stock or pay executives. But because companies have a lot of flexibility in financing their activities, they will generally be able to use the money as they see fit while still meeting the letter of the law.'b'So the tax holiday blesses rather than curbs tax avoidance and is structured to encourage little if any new domestic economic activity. It establishes a horrible precedent by encouraging companies to leave profits abroad in anticipation of future holidays. It makes fools of companies that have routinely repatriated foreign profits at the full corporate tax rate. And it disadvantages American companies that have no foreign presence and thus no opportunity to reap profits at a discounted tax rate.'b'All it will really do is what the drafters probably intended all along -- further erode the nation\'s corporate tax base and impugn the system\'s integrity, in that way building a case for eliminating corporate taxes altogether. That is a lousy way to make policy. Reforms to the corporate tax system must be debated on their merits, not under cover of some phony label like "job creation."'b"Steve Levy's second State of the County address, given last week on a frigid night in snowy Wyandanch, was hard not to like. It did what speeches of its type are supposed to do, which is to float new ideas and be vibrant and get your attention. They are like hot-air balloons that way: there isn't much inside them, but they can lift your heart with a buoyant sense of possibility."b"Here the metaphor falls away, however, because the speech was not a gaseous blob. It seemed to us, rather, to be a sensible ordering of priorities presented with Mr. Levy's trademark emphasis on pragmatism and common sense. If the speech was a true reflection of Mr. Levy's vision for Suffolk County -- and not just a collection of applause lines -- we'll take it."b'The most compelling part of the speech had to do with Mr. Levy\'s continued emphasis on the county\'s need for affordable housing -- or rather "work force housing," a term considered less likely to stir the resentful passions of the pull-up-the-ladder crowd.'b'Specifically, Mr. Levy, whose creation of a Workforce Housing Commission was emblematic of his administration\'s aggressive approach to solving the problem, suggested a "work force housing community" of more than 1,000 units on now-vacant county-owned land in Yaphank. The units would be sold or leased to companies that would move to or expand in Suffolk, and perhaps also include a day-care center and rely on clean-energy sources.'b'It is a bold plan to link economic development to a pressing social problem, and one that must not be allowed to languish in a file somewhere under the heading Too Ambitious to Pursue.'b"Mr. Levy's other great idea involved nonpartisan redrawing of legislative district lines. This is something we have long championed for other governmental bodies. Mr. Levy -- like Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is fighting the good fight in California now -- is right to say that the electoral game is rigged, and that the best way to fix it is to have nonpartisan experts, like retired judges and good-government groups, redraw districts. Although this idea may go nowhere in the Suffolk Legislature, we urge him to pursue it aggressively."b'Practicality is Mr. Levy\'s strength. He is, for instance, devoted to the idea of "smart government," which means doing more with less by seeking efficiencies and technological advantages and applying nonpartisan rigor to government management and finances. His ideas on that front -- like consolidating purchasing with Nassau County or being more aggressive about collecting fees at county facilities -- reside firmly in the no-brainer category, and will get no argument from us.'b"Nor will these proposals, sprinkled like jellybeans throughout Mr. Levy's speech:"b'Controlling mosquitoes, but not through heavy reliance on pesticides or on wetlands-scarring drainage ditches. (Mr. Levy\'s resounding cry "There will be no machine ditching!" was the night\'s unlikeliest applause line.)'b'Creating non-emergency 311 hot line.'b'Redrawing bus routes, so that buses take people where they want to go.'b'Growing more scallops and clams, by reseeding shellfish beds.'b'Reducing red tape, through the Red Tape Reduction program.'b"We would also like to applaud Mr. Levy's decision to give his speech outside of Hauppauge, where the government offices are. Last year, breaking with tradition, he gave the speech in Southampton, on the East End, saying he wanted to reach out to constituents who might otherwise feel excluded from government. This time he spoke at Wyandanch Memorial High School. The warm reception he received there seemed as much in appreciation for the generosity of his gesture as for the ideas in his speech."b'Investors who visit the J.P. Morgan Chase Web site these days are finding more than the usual corporate news. The bank has posted a letter of apology and the results of an eye-opening research project that found that two of its predecessor banks had participated in the slave trade, accepting about 13,000 enslaved people as collateral for loans issued in Louisiana in the mid-19th century. When the borrowers defaulted on their loans, the banks took ownership of some slaves and presumably sold them.'b"J.P. Morgan, which in addition to apologizing set up a scholarship fund for African-Americans in Louisiana, carried out this research to comply with a Chicago ordinance that requires companies doing business with the city government to divulge any links to slavery. A similar statute covers insurance companies operating in California, where several of the country's largest insurers have divulged links to slavery. These disclosures are exposing 18th- and 19th-century Northern businesses that sought to profit from the slave trade even after slavery had been outlawed in the North."b'The disclosure laws grew out of an early attempt to seek damages from present-day companies for the misdeeds of their historical predecessors. The courts never took the reparations argument seriously, but the revelations of Northern corporate involvement were timely in the civic sense. They coincided with a revival of interest in slavery in the North, where many Americans had grown up believing that slavery had been confined to the cotton fields of the South.'b'When the new business disclosures are discussed publicly and integrated into the historical record, Americans will have been made aware that the tendrils of slavery spanned the length of the country and extended into the Northern financial elite. The inclusion of records of long-buried slave transactions on corporate Web sites shows that the process of reappraisal is well under way.'b"BAGHDAD, Iraq - DEMOCRACY won in a landslide yesterday here in Sadr City, the epicenter of Iraqi politics. Iraq's Shiites outnumber its Sunni Arabs by five to one, and when they rise up, this Baghdad slum is where they do it. Yesterday they rose up again, but this time it was with ballots, not with guns."b'Mortar shells rained down on the ghetto at the beginning and end of the voting day, sporadic gunfire rattled through the smog, and at least one car bomb rounded out the predictable symphony of violence. But inside the Martyr Primary School, which was transformed for a day into Polling Station No. 119011, there were long lines of young men in Real Madrid and Lazio soccer jerseys, women in black body coverings, old tribesmen from the deserts and marshes in ankle-length dusty robes.'b'I watched people slide their ballots into the clear plastic boxes and dip their forefingers in the purple ink (to help poll workers combat fraud). In the afternoon I walked for a few miles and spoke with dozens of adults. About four-fifths told me they had voted, showing off their inky fingers.'b"Of course, there are always doubters. Many observers will say that because turnout among Sunni Arabs was low, their underrepresentation in the new government will undermine the election's legitimacy. Iraq's violence is a Sunni phenomenon, and fears of violence at the polling stations were especially strong in Sunni cities like Ramadi and Falluja, mixed municipalities like Mosul, and Sunni neighborhoods in Baghdad. I have a friend named Sohair Chalabi, a 55-year old economist from Mosul, who was one of the Sunni Arabs too frightened to vote. A month ago he found his name on a list pinned to the door of a local mosque, with a note saying that those on it would be killed if they continued to participate in the electoral process. He has since fled to Baghdad, and two of the other nine people on the list have been killed."b'Yet when I asked him what he thought of elections in which he and much of his community had been unable to vote, he said, "it\'s not a big problem. The real election is at the end of this year." He is right. Yesterday\'s vote was the first stage in a sophisticated, yearlong constitutional process that leaves plenty of flexibility for the challenges created by Iraq\'s combination of disorder and identity-based politics.'b"Iraqis are scheduled to go to the national polls twice more this year: in October for a referendum on the permanent constitution that the new assembly is charged with writing, and again in December to elect a new government under the rules of that constitution. Each of the country's three main groups -- Kurds, Sunni Arabs and Shiites -- has a veto over the permanent constitution. And each enjoys a de facto veto as well: not one is strong enough to impose majoritarian misrule on the others."b'It would be blatantly against Shiite and Kurdish interests for either group to try to take advantage of any Sunni parliamentary underrepresentation. They have been waiting centuries for this opportunity, and the last thing they want is to make their country ungovernable.'b'Federalism, enshrined in the interim constitution, is another safety valve. "Regional autonomy will not tear Iraq apart," said Ahmad Chalabi, the clever Shiite politician who, although now disowned by the Americans who long sponsored him, will be a central figure in the new government. "It is the only way to keep it together."'b"More important, it is not likely that yesterday's low turnout among Sunnis will lead to their dramatic underrepresentation in the Assembly. The latest estimates put Sunni Arabs at a little less than 13 percent of Iraq's population. Yet there were 50 to 60 Sunni Arabs in viably high slots on yesterday's ballots -- even if just 40 Sunnis are elected, that would be 15 percent of the 275-seat assembly."b"The candidate list compiled by the Shiite religious leadership, the United Iraqi Alliance, had 11 Sunni Arabs from Mosul alone, as well as the head of Iraq's largest Sunni tribe. Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's secular list also had many Sunnis. So did the lists of the monarchists, Socialists, Communists and others. And now the betting is that a Sunni will be named to head one of the big three ministries in the new government: foreign, defense or interior. Sunnis will also likely get a vice presidency of the state and the presidency of the Assembly."b"None of this is by accident. Car bombs might make headlines, but the real politics in Iraq is about something much deeper than the fanaticism of the country's 5,000 or 10,000 terrorists. The people who are going to run Iraq are profoundly pragmatic."b"The Kurdish leaders in the valleys of the north, the Shiite Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani in the alleys of Najaf, the radical Shiite Moktada al-Sadr in his hiding place -- all understand what they have achieved over the last two years. By showing great restraint toward one another's communities and a spectacular patience with the necessary evil of American occupation, they have woven together the long, improbable, unfinished carpet of an Iraqi future."b'This attitude of restraint is echoed on the street. A 34-year-old Shiite engineer I met in Sadr City last week told me, "If we had wanted revenge on the Sunnis, we would have taken it in 2003." Soldiers in Mr. Sadr\'s Mahdi Army told me that their leader has sent them to pray with Sunnis and to provide security at their mosques. And the widespread campaign of Sunni extremist violence against Shiites has been met with deafening forbearance.'b'Iraq as a nation never rose up against the occupation, and after yesterday it does not need to. Iraqis have just elected the only legitimate government between Istanbul and New Delhi. The prestige and moral force of popular representation cannot be denied, even by Washington. When the Iraqi government tells the Americans to leave, they will not be able to stay. Whether a little too soon or a little too late, this is the way it is supposed to be.'b"I write this from a rundown house in the poorest slum in the Middle East. Until yesterday, my hosts and neighbors had for three decades been among the most repressed people on earth. Yet when I walk out the door, I see a city smothered in posters and banners from a hundred political parties. Like Afghanistan last year, the country has endorsed the right to vote in percentages that shame the electoral apathy of the rich world. Let nobody tell you that this election was anything but real. Iraq's Baathists and Wahhabis may continue to bark, but this caravan is moving on."b'Op-Ed Contributor Bartle Breese Bull has reported from Iraq for The Financial Times, the BBC and The Telegraph of London.'b"LOS ANGELES - THERE is everyone else in music, including the New York Dolls, and then there is Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, whose long-awaited 249th birthday was celebrated last week. Mozart's music will endure as long as there is brunch; and yet, a smog of reverence hangs over him today, obscuring the man himself from view. Were his quirks really foibles -- or vice versa? Such questions used to be thought impertinent, but thanks to exciting developments in infotainment scholarship, Mozart's biography is being punched up as never before."b'Mozart\'s devotion to his career on the Vienna police force was legendary. Once, conducting the debut of his opera "Le Nozze di Figaro," Mozart noticed that the stage manager\'s snuff box was open. "What the --" exclaimed Mozart. "That\'s pure rock cocaine!" Within seconds, he was off the podium and tearing through the streets of Vienna in his Camaro. When he made the collar on a backstreet, Mozart began pistol-whipping the dealer, even as his partner, Larry da Ponte, urged him to go back to the opera house. Mozart replied, "All the operas in the world won\'t keep scum like this off the streets."'b'Thanks to this bust, Mozart made lieutenant, while "Figaro" was favorably mentioned in People magazine\'s "Picks and Pans" section.'b'Another time, Mozart and Deputy Commissioner Salieri were at the court of Emperor Joseph, waiting to be honored for the breakup of a smuggling ring. To pass the time, Salieri was playing Mozart\'s latest single, Fantasia in D minor (K. 397). "This piece is indeed beautiful, maestro," said Salieri. "But do you not feel that composing and crime fighting are incompatible pursuits?" A hush filled the room, for Mozart was known to be proud of his accomplishments in both fields; and besides, they were the only two people there. Then Mozart said, "Suits like you aren\'t helping to keep scum off the streets," and slammed the piano lid on Salieri\'s hands.'b"It cost Mozart a promotion, but he didn't care. And in his rage, he rewrote the piece to make it even more beautiful."b'Mozart\'s playful sense of humor would often bubble forth like an opened fire hydrant of Champagne. Once, for example, kicking down the door on a bust of a numbers racket, who should Mozart find but his wife, Constanze, in bed with the kingpin! "Forgive me, husband," she pleaded. "But between your composing and policing, there\'s no time for me!" Mozart laughed a Continental-style laugh, for he knew that he was really married to a lady called Music, and seeing a lady called Justice on the side. Then he said, "Baby, as long as you\'re keeping this scum off the streets, you can do what you like."'b'That night, after filing his report, Mozart wrote "Cos\xc3\xac Fan Tutte."'b'Op-Ed Contributor Chris Marcil writes for television.'b"You'd have to be pretty hardhearted not to be moved by the courage of the millions of Iraqis who insisted on turning out to vote yesterday despite the very real threat that they would be walking into mayhem and violent death at the polls."b'At polling stations across the country there were women in veils holding the hands of children, and men on crutches, and people who had been maimed during the terrible years of Saddam, and old people. Among those lined up to vote in Baghdad was Samir Hassan, a 32-year-old man who lost a leg in the blast of a car bomb last year. He told a reporter, "I would have crawled here if I had to."'b"In a war with very few feel-good moments, yesterday's election would qualify as one. But as with any positive development in Iraq, this one was riddled with caveats. For one thing, dozens of people were, in fact, killed in election day attacks. And shortly after the polls closed, a British military transport plane crashed northwest of Baghdad."b'So there was no respite from the carnage.'b"And we should keep in mind that despite the feelings of pride and accomplishment experienced by so many of the voters, yesterday's election was hardly a textbook example of democracy in action. A real democracy requires an informed electorate. What we saw yesterday was an uncommonly brave electorate. But it was woefully uninformed."b'Much of the electorate was voting blind. Half or more of those who went to the polls believed they were voting for a president. They weren\'t. They were electing a transitional national assembly that will have as its primary task the drafting of a constitution. The Washington Post noted that because of the extreme violence that preceded the election "almost none of the 7,700 candidates for the National Assembly campaigned publicly or even announced their names."'b'As John F. Burns put it in The Times yesterday:'b'"Half a dozen candidates have been assassinated. As a result, the names of all others have not been made public; they were available in the last days of the campaign on Web sites inaccessible to most Iraqis, few of whom own computers."'b'"Democracy," according to "The Oxford Companion to Politics of the World," "refers to a form of government in which, in contradistinction to monarchies and aristocracies, the people rule."'b'That is not the case in Iraq and is not likely to be the case soon. In much of Iraq the people exist in a kind of hell on earth, at the mercy of American forces on the one hand and a variety of enraged insurgents on the other. Despite the pretty words coming out of the Bush administration, the goals of the U.S. and the goals of most ordinary Iraqis are not, by a long stretch, the same.'b'The desire of the U.S., as embodied by the Bush administration, is to exercise as much control as possible over the Middle East and its crucial oil reserves. There is very little concern here about the plight of ordinary Iraqis, which is why the horrendous casualties being suffered by Iraqi civilians, including women and children, get so little attention.'b'What most ordinary Iraqis have been expressing, not surprisingly, is a desire for a reasonably decent quality of life. They are a long way from that.'b"In large swaths of the country, death at the hands of insurgents seems always just moments away. It's also extremely easy for innocent Iraqis to get blown away by Americans. That can occur if drivers get too close -- or try to pass -- an American military convoy. Or if confusion arising from language barriers, or ignorance of the rules, or just plain nervousness results in an unfortunate move by a vehicle at a checkpoint. Or if someone objects too vociferously to degrading treatment by U.S. forces. Or if someone is simply suspected, wrongly, of being an insurgent."b'Crime in many areas is completely out of control. Kidnapping for ransom, including the kidnapping of children, is ubiquitous. Carjackings are commonplace. Rape and murder are widespread.'b'In a country with the second-largest oil reserves in the world, drivers have to wait in line for hours at a time for gasoline. Electric power is available just a handful of hours a day. Unemployment rates are sky high. With many women destitute, prostitution is a growth industry.'b"Iraqis may have voted yesterday. But they live in occupied territory, and the occupiers have other things on their minds than the basic wishes of the Iraqi people. That's not democracy. That's a recipe for more war."b'Op-Ed Columnist E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com'b"THE death last week of Philip Johnson, the nonagenarian enfant terrible, brought 20th-century architecture to a symbolic close. Even Mr. Johnson's friends sometimes doubted that he was an architect of the first rank, but friend and foe alike agreed that he was an emblematic figure of his time."b"But emblematic of what? In death, his role in American culture will come into sharper focus, and it's a darker picture than many have thought."b"Traditionally, Mr. Johnson is presented as the great champion of modern architecture -- organizer of the landmark 1932 Museum of Modern Art show on the International Style, and architect of the Glass House on his Connecticut estate, which quickly came to symbolize American modernism. He is equally celebrated for abandoning classical modernism in the late 50's and adopting in the decades that followed a succession of styles that mirrored the changing taste of the time."b'It hardly mattered that many of his skyscrapers were corporate schmaltz; he was an enlivening, generous figure, a man who charmingly described himself as a "whore" as he picked the corporate pocket. Always ready to challenge the earnest, Mr. Johnson, who understood Warhol as well as Mies, became both an icon and an iconoclast.'b'Only one aspect marred this picture: His embrace of fascism during the 1930\'s, which was mentioned only in passing in most obituaries. He later called his ideological infatuation "stupidity" and apologized whenever pressed on the matter; as a form of atonement, he designed a synagogue for no fee. With a few exceptions, critics typically had little interest in the details, granting Mr. Johnson a pass for a youthful indiscretion.'b"Then, in 1994, Franz Schulze's biography presented this period of Mr. Johnson's life in some depth. Mr. Schulze's account was as sympathetic as possible -- and many reviews of the book still played down the importance of Mr. Johnson's politics -- but it was clear that views of Mr. Johnson's import for American culture would change significantly."b'Philip Johnson did not just flirt with fascism. He spent several years in his late 20\'s and early 30\'s -- years when an artist\'s imagination usually begins to jell -- consumed by fascist ideology. He tried to start a fascist party in the United States. He worked for Huey Long and Father Coughlin, writing essays on their behalf. He tried to buy the magazine American Mercury, then complained in a letter, "The Jews bought the magazine and are ruining it, naturally." He traveled several times to Germany. He thrilled to the Nuremberg rally of 1938 and, after the invasion of Poland, he visited the front at the invitation of the Nazis.'b'He approved of what he saw. "The German green uniforms made the place look gay and happy," he wrote in a letter. "There were not many Jews to be seen. We saw Warsaw burn and Modlin being bombed. It was a stirring spectacle." As late as 1940, Mr. Johnson was defending Hitler to the American public. It seems that only an inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation -- and, presumably, the prospect of being labeled a traitor if America entered the war -- led him to withdraw completely from politics.'b'Today, any debate over an important figure with a fascist or Communist background easily becomes an occasion for blame games between right and left. Mr. Johnson is no exception. Morally serious people can have different views of his personal culpability.'b'But what\'s essential is to let the shadow fall -- to acknowledge that fascism touched something important in his sensibility. Throughout his life, he was an ardent admirer of Nietzsche. His understanding of the great philosopher was surely deeper than that of the Nazis, but he was overly enchanted by the idea of "a superior being," "the will to power" and Nietzsche\'s view of art. And he loved the monumental.'b'In an interview published in 1973, long after he renounced fascism, Mr. Johnson said: "The only thing I really regret about dictatorships isn\'t the dictatorship, because I recognize that in Julius\'s time and in Justinian\'s time and Caesar\'s time they had to have dictators. I mean I\'m not interested in politics at all. I don\'t see any sense to it. About Hitler -- if he\'d only been a good architect!" In discussing Rome, he contrasted the poor artistic achievements of the democratically elected Republic with those of earlier regimes. "So let\'s not be so fancy-pants about who runs the country," he concluded. "Let\'s talk about whether it\'s good or not."'b"Mr. Johnson's observation was refreshingly hard-nosed about art's relation to politics: good politics is not now and never will be a prerequisite for good art. But his emphasis on the aesthetic as the only important value in art was remarkably cold-blooded. His main regret seems to be that contemporary republics have failed to create monuments that ravish the senses."b"He never became a fascist architect. But he was probably one of those artists -- among them many Communists -- whose philosophical sensibilities were gutted by the experience of the 30's and World War II. Afterward, he lived more than ever for the stylish surface, appearing uncomfortable with large-minded ideas even when his buildings reached for the sky."b'Perhaps as a consequence, his imagination developed no particular center. Nothing was intractable or non-negotiable. He was remarkably free. He could toy, sometimes beautifully, with history. He liked a splash. He was a playful cynic, cultivating success even as he winked at its vulgarity. If someone should complain, well, the problem lay not in the artist but in the fallen world.'b"Philip Johnson now seems like an emblematic figure partly because he appears to have been happily, marvelously, provocatively, disturbingly hollow. It is an underlying fear of Western culture, one that has lasted since World War II, that there is no larger or ennobling content to mine. Mr. Johnson's main flaws as an artist -- his tastes for razzle-dazzle and overweening scale -- are equally the weaknesses of American secular culture. His main strengths -- his openness to change, playfulness and urbane rejection of the Miss Grundys of the world -- are equally it strengths."b"The beautiful Glass House will remain Mr. Johnson's signature work. It is the transparent heart of a collection of eclectic buildings in New Canaan, Conn. It's a dream house, a stylish stage set. It floats upon the land, eliding boundaries between inside and outside. It seems full of emptiness. It's not really a place to live, but was still Mr. Johnson's essential home. That uneasy stylishness deserves emphasis. Philip Johnson lived in a glass house. He threw stones, too."b'Op-Ed Contributor Mark Stevens is the art critic of New York magazine and the co-author of "De Kooning: An American Master."'b"Courageous Iraqis turned out to vote yesterday in numbers that may have exceeded even the most optimistic predictions. Participation varied by region, and the impressive national percentages should not obscure the fact that the country's large Sunni Arab minority remained broadly disenfranchised -- due to alienation or terror or both. But even in some predominantly Sunni areas, turnout was higher than expected. And in an impressive range of mainly Shiite and Kurdish cities, a long silenced majority of ordinary Iraqis defied threats of deadly mayhem to cast votes for a new, and hopefully democratic, political order."b'That is a message that all but the most nihilistic of the armed insurgents will have to accept. Many fierce political struggles lie ahead. Yet all who claim to be fighting in the name of the Iraqi people should now recognize that -- in an open expression of popular will -- Iraqis have expressed their clear preference that these battles be fought exclusively in the peaceful, constitutional arena.'b'This page has not hesitated to criticize the Bush administration over its policies in Iraq, and we continue to have grave doubts about the overall direction of American strategy there. Yet today, along with other Americans, whether supporters or critics of the war, we rejoice in a heartening advance by the Iraqi people. For now at least, the multiple political failures that marked the run-up to the voting stand eclipsed by a remarkably successful election day.'b'But once the votes are fully counted and the new governing and constitution-writing bodies begin their work, those errors, particularly the needless estrangement of mainstream Sunni Arabs and their political leaders, must be urgently addressed. In the longer run, this election can only be counted as a success if it helps lead to a unified Iraq that avoids civil war and attracts a broad enough range of Iraqis to defend itself against its enemies without requiring long-term and substantial American military help.'b"That day has now become easier to envision. But it still appears very far off. It's impossible to say, in the glow of election day, how many of the millions of Iraqis who voted did so in hopes that they were making the first step toward a Shiite theocracy. Many -- though certainly not all -- Shiite leaders have said repeatedly that that they want to work toward an inclusive secular state in which all groups have a stake. What happens next will depend to a considerable extent on the wisdom and restraint the largely Shiite victors show in reaching out to Sunnis who have felt unfairly marginalized. Detaching the Sunni mainstream from the hard-core terrorists is clearly the most critical challenge of the weeks ahead. Kurdish leaders will also need to demonstrate that they and their followers are committed to a future as Iraqi citizens, not members of a breakaway state."b"Sunni political leaders have their own challenge to meet, and other Iraqis will be waiting to see how they respond to the election results. Their calls to boycott were only partially heeded. For many Sunni voters, the opportunity to participate in the most meaningful and legitimate election Iraq has seen in at least half a century proved more compelling than their sectarian grievances. Those voters, along with the millions of other Sunnis who sat on the sidelines, need Sunni political leaders to fight fiercely but peacefully on their behalf for a fair share of Iraq's legislative and constitutional power."b"Voters who went to the polls in November should reasonably expect to know who won by now. But New York's elections system is such a mess that a legislative race in Westchester County is still in limbo. The candidates are 58 votes apart, and there are hundreds of contested ballots. The New York Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, should lay down two principles: that every eligible voter's ballot must be counted and that the election rules should be made much simpler."b'In the 35th State Senate District, the incumbent, Nicholas Spano, leads the challenger, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, 56,986 to 56,928, and they are fighting over 550 uncounted ballots. The largest number are provisional ballots cast by eligible voters who were in the right polling place, but the wrong election district -- what election junkies call "right church, wrong pew." There are also ballots filled out by people who served as poll workers on Election Day and voted by absentee ballot. Elections officials say they should have used a different kind of ballot.'b'How murky and malleable is New York\'s election law? The trial court ruled that the "right church, wrong pew" ballots must be counted, but that the poll workers\' ballots should be thrown out. An appeals court ruled precisely the opposite. Leaving the law so unclear allows parties -- and judges -- to wait to see how the voting goes, and then manipulate the rules for partisan advantage.'b'Ballots should not count if voters are not registered, of course, or if there is any suggestion of fraud or willful defiance of the law. But almost all the contested ballots here represent eligible voters who appeared to have been foiled by the process. Five elections commissioners from New York City, where "right church, wrong pew" ballots are counted, submitted a brief explaining that the city presumes that voters who voted in the right polling place but the wrong election district did so because of poll workers\' errors.'b'For years, the courts have been too willing to allow voters to be disenfranchised by election rules that are so byzantine that even elections officials -- and courts -- cannot agree on them. The Court of Appeals now has the perfect opportunity to make clear that if the Legislature and governor will not enact a workable elections law, voters will no longer be the ones who pay the penalty.'